https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16050495
.xxx pornography web domain names go on general sale - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology .xxx pornography web domain names go on general sale 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16050495 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption The .xxx will be a virtual red light district and has generated years of debate Web addresses ending in .xxx have gone on general sale, as legal efforts continue to scupper the domain name. Some 100,000 addresses have already been purchased in a restricted sale. The first pages went live in September. Two of the net's biggest pornography firms have accused ICM Registry - which oversees the addresses - of being "anti-competitive" and a "monopoly". ICM Registry said that lawsuits are "without merit" adding that it plans to defend itself. Malware scans Manwin Licensing and Digital Playground claim that the decision to create .xxx is flawed and that ICM Registry had abused its position. They are suing the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), which oversees web addresses, and have also filed a lawsuit against ICM Registry. The public sale of the domain follows years of wrangling over whether a specific adult content address was needed. The move was finally approved in March by Icann. The decision ended a decade-long battle for the move by ICM Registry which was awarded the right to administrate the new domain. It put .xxx on a par with more conventional web addresses such as .com and .org. "It has been 10 years in the coming and today the floodgates are open," said ICM Registry chief executive Stuart Lawley. "We would hope that the number of domains sold will more than double very quickly," he added. Manwin - which runs the Playboy websites - claims that ICM Registry was charging annual fees of about $60 (£38) per address, which it said was 10 times the fee charged for other comparable top-level domain names. But Mr Lawley said that its pricing "was comparable with other niche providers". "There are economies of scale here, bear in mind that .com sells 100 million names a year," he told the BBC. He added that the current lawsuits were "without merit". "We will contest them vigorously. There are some incumbents who would like to keep the status quo but how can a top-level domain name be anti-competitive?" he said. Protection ICM Registry is confident that the new address will "act as a responsible alternative for adult content sites". It claims that .xxx sites will be safer than traditional pornography sites, partly because they will benefit from daily malware scanning from security firm Macafee. It also contracted software developer Metacert to develop safety labels which it said would make it easier for users, especially parents, to adjust their browser settings to restrict access to such sites. Some 250 million pages of adult content across all domain names had already been labelled using the system, it said. Its .xxx website, which details how interested parties can register their domain, has received nearly one million visitors. The website lists all the registrars. Prices will be set by the individual registrars. Companies and individuals that do not want their name associated with pornography will be able to pay a one-off fee of between $150 and $300 (£100 to £200), depending on which company they register their domain with. For example, UK adult star Teresa May might wish to bid for a .xxx domain, whereas UK home secretary Theresa May might consider protecting her name. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Porn sites sue internet regulator 21 November 2011 .XXX website registration begins 7 September 2011 Sex domain given final approval 18 March 2011 Related Internet links Metacert The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.