https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16523817
Gorilla Glass 2 promises thinner mobile device screens - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Gorilla Glass 2 promises thinner mobile device screens By Leo Kelion Technology reporter, BBC News, Las Vegas 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16523817 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Corning says the new version of Gorilla glass will make screens thinner At a trade show designed to celebrate gadgets, it may seem odd that Corning, a 161-year-old materials-based firm, is attracting more excitement than most. However, the New York-based manufacturer's Gorilla Glass is firmly centre stage at this year's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. Hewlett Packard caused a splash when it unveiled a thin ultrabook using the material for its lid and palm rest, rather than aluminium or plastic. It boasted that the choice made its laptop scratch-proof. But what is really drawing attention is an announcement that Gorilla Glass 2 is on the way. We do have some collaboration going on with auto manufacturers as well to investigate if we can bring that toughness and the ability to design things thinner James Hollis, Director, Gorilla Glass Thinner screens Corning says that its reformulation has made its product tougher. It says that means that manufacturers now have the choice of developing more robust devices or using screens 20% less thick than before, but with the same resistance. At a time when tablet, laptop and smartphone manufacturers are competing to shave off every millimetre they can, Corning admits that the second of the two options is likely to prove the most popular. It adds that as an extra benefit, display images should become brighter and touch sensitivity should be improved. Japanese rival Corning's first-generation product has been used on more than 575 distinct products by 33 manufacturers, covering a total of more than half a billion devices worldwide. While that makes it the industry's biggest player, it does not have the market to itself. Image caption Samsung opted not to use Gorilla Glass for the Galaxy Nexus smartphones Japan's Asahi Glass launched a rival product - Dragontail - last year. Analysts at IHS iSuppli have suggested it is used by Apple's iPad 2. Samsung's flagship Android handset, the Galaxy Nexus, has also been confirmed as using an alternative product. The South Korean firm would only say that it is a "fortified glass". The upgrade may help Corning address the competition and extend its reach to televisions, large format touch-displays and even cars. "We have a futures group that looks at architecture, appliances and automotive," James Hollis, director of Gorilla Glass worldwide sales, told the BBC. "We do have some collaboration going on with auto manufacturers as well to investigate if we can bring that toughness and the ability to design things thinner, lighter and so better fuel efficiency as a potential benefit for auto manufacturers." Creating compression Glass is, by its nature, a brittle material that is strong when compressed, but fragile when put under tension. There was a device mentioned recently that was dropped from almost orbit and didn't crack Donnell Walton, Corning Gorilla Glass addresses the weakness by subjecting its product to a chemical process known as an ion exchange. This replaces atoms on the top of its material with larger counterparts. "Imagine that the atoms along the surface are tennis balls and then we put it in a bath that lets you change some of the tennis balls for bowling balls - that's where the compression comes in," says Donnell Walton, manager of worldwide applications engineering at Corning. "So the glass structure was designed physically by altering the chemistry, such that it would be more receptive of those bowling balls to replace the tennis balls. "Sodium ions in the glass are the tennis balls and the potassium ions coming in from the bath are the bowling balls." Cracked displays The original Gorilla Glass was launched in 2007. Despite its much-lauded resilience, many thousands of smartphone owners have still suffered smashed screens after dropping their handsets. Well aware of the problem, Corning has been carrying out tests into what it terms "fractology". Image caption Mr Hollis (left) and Mr Walton (right) say they are working towards eliminating any flaws in their glass "A lot of times, what we found is how things look like they broke is not how they broke at all," says Mr Walton. "One of the most prominent failure modes of a phone is sharp impact damage. Though it may look like it broke from the edge, it actually fell on a rock. Even on a carpet, it may fall on something harder than the glass, causing it to fracture. "So finding out what the average damage origin depth was and then designing the glass around that was one of the biggest findings for handhelds." Gorilla Glass 2 improves on its predecessor by increasing the amount of compression created by the ion exchange and making the protective layer deeper. Smash-proof The firm says it has already begun shipping panels of the new glass to manufacturers. Products using the material will appear later this year. However, if, as expected, most firms opt for thinner units, then it still does not address the issue of shattered screens. So will Gorilla Glass 3, or some later iteration, ever offer the promise of smash-proof handsets? "There was a device mentioned recently that was dropped from almost orbit and didn't crack," says Mr Walton. "The way that glass breaks is through the flaws that are there. So we are working very hard to contain the flaws that you do generate and to try to keep those flaws from developing in the first place. "We are progressing closer to that. I wouldn't make a time-limit prediction, but that is definitely what we are working hard on." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story CES 2012 Blippar 13 January diary: Organised chaos 8 March 2012 CES 2012: New technologies unleashed at show 8 March 2012 Tech to look out for in 2012 3 January 2012 Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.