https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51975377
Coronavirus: Elon Musk 'child immunity' tweet will stay online - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Coronavirus: Elon Musk 'child immunity' tweet will stay online 20 March 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51975377 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Image copyright Getty Images A tweet by entrepreneur Elon Musk suggesting children are "essentially immune" to coronavirus did not break Twitter's rules, the company has said. This week, Twitter pledged to remove misinformation and tweets denying scientific facts about the virus. It even cited claims about child immunity as an example of misinformation that it would remove. But even though children can catch and transmit the virus, it said it did not break its rules when read in context. The World Health Organization (WHO) has issued special guidance about caring for children who fall sick after catching the virus. But during a question-and-answer session with his Twitter followers on Thursday, Mr Musk, who co-founded PayPal before joining car-maker Tesla, tweeted: "Kids are essentially immune, but elderly with existing conditions are vulnerable." Skip Twitter post by @elonmusk Kids are essentially immune, but elderly with existing conditions are vulnerable. Family gatherings with close contact between kids & grandparents probably most risky. — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) March 19, 2020 Report End of Twitter post by @elonmusk He then linked to a graphic showing that no children had died in Italy by 15 March - although it showed no information about non-fatal infections. Mr Musk, who has previously said "the coronavirus panic is dumb", has 32 million followers on Twitter. He is an influential figure in the business and technology worlds, having co-founded PayPal. Days before his tweet, Twitter had pledged to "broaden our definition of harm" to include content that goes directly against public health information. Are women and children less affected? Newborn diagnosed with virus Should you let your children play with other children? One such measure was "denial of established scientific facts about transmission during the incubation period or transmission guidance from global and local health authorities, such as 'COVID-19 does not infect children because we haven't seen any cases of children being sick'". Twitter said Mr Musk's tweet did not break the rules when taken in the context of the conversation and other tweets. How does coronavirus affect children? In the United States, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says that "some children and infants have been sick with Covid-19", though children tend to present more mild symptoms. However, that is not true in all cases. The WHO's guidance includes detailed methods for treating complications in the disease in children. For example, a study published in the medical journal Pediatrics suggests that 6% of 2,100 cases among children in China were "severe or critical". The global picture of how the virus affects children is still emerging. It is not the first time Mr Musk has downplayed the severity of the coronavirus outbreak. BuzzFeed News reported that he told employees at his SpaceX firm that the disease is "not within the top 100 health risks". Related Topics Twitter Coronavirus pandemic Elon Musk Fake News Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Coronavirus: Twitter bans 'unsafe' advice about the outbreak 19 March 2020 Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.