https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18608730
Will chatting smart cars become a reality soon? - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Will chatting smart cars become a reality soon? By Katia Moskvitch Technology reporter, BBC News 9 July 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18608730 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption One day, there may be real-life versions of Lightning McQueen on our busy roads "Yes, I'm a real race car, what do you think? Look at me." Granted, there is not much chance that Lightning McQueen, a talking, grinning red hybrid between a Mazda Miata and a Dodge Viper from Pixar's animated film "Cars" will wink at you on the street. But children watching such movies - many of whom will play on iPads before they play with a ball - will naturally expect their vehicle to be as smart as any other gadget they use by the time they reach the driving age. Already, 46% of people between 18 to 24 would prefer internet connectivity to owning an automobile, if forced to pick between the two, according to Gartner. Firms realise this - and are grappling to turn the concept of a "smart car" into an everyday reality. Smart and connected In the past few years, companies have been pouring huge amounts of money into research and development in the area of telematics - telecommunications and informatics - and the "internet of things", connecting physical objects to the web. The world's biggest chipmaker Intel, for instance, has established a $100m (£62.9m) fund, dedicated to investing in firms developing connectivity for cars. The company says that by 2014, automobiles will be among the top three fastest-growing areas for connected devices. Image caption Connected cars could help drivers avoid traffic jams and collisions One example of "car intelligence" is a US carmaker Ford's voice-activated technology called Sync . With Bluetooth, a wi-fi channel and a cloud service, it turns your automobile into a giant smartphone on wheels. If you don't have a navigation system in your car, you can just connect to the cloud using voice control to get directions Venkatesh Prasad, Ford "Things like traffic directions and information are all in the cloud - if you don't have a navigation system in your car, or you don't want to use your phone while driving, you can just connect to the cloud using voice control to get directions," says Venkatesh Prasad of Ford's new division in Silicon Valley. "Also, your kid may want to download a Mickey Mouse [cartoon] when you're going through a queue in McDonalds, and you want to do it as quickly as you can. "That kind of download capability wirelessly by the car connecting to a secure VPN [virtual private network] environment and downloading media is not inconceivable." Other companies are also aiming to make cars smarter by supplying automobiles with driving preferences of a particular driver via radio frequency identification (RFID) tags - non-powered smart labels that can be read by a nearby radio receiver. Image caption Google has been testing its driverless Toyota Prius cars in the US As the driver approaches the car, it would connect to, for example, car keys with such a tag in the driver's pocket, start the ignition, tune in to the preferred radio station, and adjust the seat and the temperature. Avoiding collisions But it is not only about digital comfort on the move - smarter vehicles can also improve safety. If you had vehicles communicating with each other, you could 'see around' corners and understand when there are problems on the road ahead Steve Wainwright, Freescale Semiconductors Since 2010 Volvo has offered a feature on some of its models called Pedestrian Detection which automatically triggers the brakes if a radar embedded in the car's grille detects an object in front of the vehicle and a camera confirms it is human-shaped. Freescale Semiconductors is also working in a similar concept and says this is just the start. "If you had vehicles communicating with each other, you could 'see around' corners and understand when there are problems on the road ahead," says the firm's marketing manager Steve Wainwright. This could be much more effective than having a sat-nav device suggesting a new route because of a possible congestion ahead, he adds. "Your car would simply send a signal out about traffic conditions to the car ahead, which would in turn 'communicate' with the one in front of it, and so on - and you would be getting traffic updates in real time," says Mr Wainwright. No traffic lights One way to do it could be by using a so-called operating system for cities, which manages smart objects, among them cars, equipped with embedded sensors. A company called Living PlanIT, together with McLaren Electronic Systems, has developed such a platform, called Urban OS . Image caption Researchers say that a driverless car is able to process information much faster than humans It is designed to run cities just like a computer operating system runs your PC. It could facilitate communications of cars between one another as well as with the surrounding infrastructure - parking spaces and traffic lights - says Steve Lewis, head of Living PlanIT. In an on-going trial in Porto, Portugal, several taxis have been equipped with special sensors that gather data about traffic conditions. Urban OS then treats the data and communicates the information to the drivers, helping them to avoid collisions and traffic jams. "We believe this can lead to the elimination of traffic lights, with driver instructions being provided inside individual vehicles, signage becoming internal instead of external," explains Mr Lewis. "Already people are used to receiving navigational instructions from a sat-nav inside the vehicle, and as we get to scale when all vehicles are so equipped and are responding to real-time traffic information, sending everyone down the same alternate route - which today's sat-navs do - just isn't going to work." Traffic lights [could be eliminated] with driver instructions being provided inside individual vehicles, signage becoming internal instead of external Steve Lewis, Lining PlanIT "We need to load balance traffic across the road network depending on destination and maybe even priority - and that will require certain directional instructions to be mandatory, not just advisory." Self-driving cars With intelligence comes autonomy - and cars are no exception. A number of carmakers and technology firms have been experimenting with driverless cars in recent years. One of the best-known test runs is probably the VisLab Intercontinental Autonomous Challenge, a 13,000 km drive of four autonomous electric vans from Italy to China in 2010. Among other companies, search giant Google has tested driverless cars in the US. The state of Nevada in May this year issued America's first self-driven vehicle licence to a Toyota Prius, modified with Google's driverless technology. The automobile used video cameras mounted on the roof, radar sensors and a laser range finder to "see" other traffic. In the UK, a group of Oxford scientists also made a driverless car attempt, testing a self-driven modified BAE Wildcat military jeep. Image caption Smarter in-car computer systems could help improve safety And although a self-driving car does not need to be connected, adding connectivity could help improve safety and efficiency, says Tim Edwards, senior engineer at MIRA, an independent engineering consultancy. "Cars could form close-knit platoons on the motorway to improve throughput and fuel use, and in urban areas traffic speeds and routes could be alternated dynamically to improve everyone's journey time," he says. So who knows - maybe in a few years, we will be heading to work in a real-life version of Lightning McQueen. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Driverless cars and how they would change motoring 10 May 2012 Google gets Nevada driving licence for self-drive car 8 May 2012 'Talking' cars to reduce pile-ups 12 July 2011 Clever cars to mean safer driving 17 September 2010 Related Internet links Ford SYNC SYNC Support, Phone Compatibility, Updates, Manuals, Voice Guides, Instructions & More Ford.com Technology Research Gartner Inc. Freescale Semiconductors, Automotive Living PlanIT - Technology for sustainable cities Home McLaren Electronics Google Volvo The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.