https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-24303872
Rural broadband - a 4G solution? - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Rural broadband - a 4G solution? Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 27 September 2013 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-24303872 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Thinkstock This week has seen MPs slam the government's rural broadband project as delivering poor value to the taxpayer - and an equally robust response from ministers and from BT. Their defence of the programme which has put the entire project in the hands of one company was that nobody else was willing or able to do it. But here's a thought - was the government too narrow-minded in deciding that fixed line fibre optic broadband was the only way to hook up remote areas to the 21st Century? Two of the big mobile operators, EE and Vodafone, certainly seem to think so. They both came out with statements urging the government to use 4G as a solution. "The current BDUK process simply will not deliver value for money nor the rural connectivity that Britain needs," said Vodafone. "The government should urgently revise the process to encompass wireless 4G in order to make digital Britain a reality." I asked both companies why they had not got involved in the bidding process from the start, offering BDUK (the government agency handling the superfast broadband rollout) an alternative to BT. But they insist that the rules for the process made it clear that mobile broadband would not be considered as an option. in some areas 4G speeds may be slower than what a fibre connection can promise - but the mobile service may arrive sooner and at less cost to the taxpayer So should it have been? BDUK's aim was to deliver superfast broadband to 90% of the population by 2015 - and we know that this target has slipped a little. But the three big mobile operators say they will deliver indoor 4G coverage to 98% of the population by 2015. Now in some areas 4G speeds may be quite a bit slower than what a fibre connection can promise - but the mobile service may arrive sooner and at less cost to the taxpayer. In Cumbria for instance, EE is already providing a 4G service in the Northern Fells, an area which won't see the benefit of the £40m invested under the BDUK programme for another couple of years. To stop the programme in its tracks now and re-open the bidding process might well bring further chaos and delays - but the mobile operators see a chance to to get their hands on some of the money which has not yet been spent. There will be pressure on BT to be far more clear about which areas will not be served even when the fibre rollout is complete - and on the government to invite others to complete the job. Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption Still the fastest signal for miles? And another thing... When I wrote last week about my frustration that the arrival of 4G in my area did not seem to have done anything to improve my 3G reception, a few people got in touch to accuse me of technical illiteracy. They pointed out, quite rightly, that 4G and 3G are different technologies. But my point was that the networks had promised that everyone would benefit from 4G's arrival - and today O2 confirmed that this was the plan. Whenever they install a 4G mast, they will also upgrade the 3G equipment, a spokeswoman told me. The end result will be that the current figure of 84% population coverage for 3G will rise to 98%, matching the 4G pledge. The company stressed, however, that this would not happen overnight. Like those waiting for rural broadband, anyone expecting a rapid improvement in mobile coverage may have to be patient. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.