https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16141986
YouTube launches schools-friendly video service - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology YouTube launches schools-friendly video service 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16141986 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption The school setting will mean pupils are not tempted away to viral clips like the famous 'sneezing Panda' YouTube, the world's largest video sharing service, has launched a new school-friendly version of its site. YouTube For Schools promises classrooms access to educational videos without the risk of pupils being "distracted by the latest music video or cute cat". The Google-owned site has put together playlists according to subject matter and intended age level. Google said it hoped to attract schools which had previously been put off by inappropriate content on the site. Project manager Brian Truong wrote in a blog post: "We've been hearing from teachers that they want to use the vast array of educational videos on YouTube in their classrooms, but are concerned that students will be distracted by the latest music video or cute cat, or a video that wasn't appropriate for students. "While schools that restrict access to YouTube may solve this distraction concern, they also limit access to hundreds of thousands of educational videos on YouTube that could help bring photosynthesis to life, or show what life was like in ancient Greece." The new service allows schools to turn on a network setting that means pupils can only access content from YouTube EDU - the site's section for education videos. 'Real engagement' Teachers within the protected network are still able to log-in and view any video. A sister site, YouTube for Teachers, gives advice on how best to use the site for learning. Among the content are videos produced by the likes ofMITand the popularTED talks. Educational technology expert Iain Maclaren welcomed the move, but urged caution over video-based learning. "Learning in a more profound sense also needs real 'interactive' engagement; students actually working through problems themselves, trying again and again to understand new ideas and getting feedback from teachers or more advanced learners," he said. "So the use of video might help with motivation, be useful for revision and recap, but doesn't in itself necessarily lead to real, deep learning without other forms of activity, practice, engagement and communication." Social schools YouTube is not the only social network hoping gain ground in schools. Other sites, such as California-based Edmodo, are looking to provide popular functions of "open" social networks like Facebook but without the associated risks with using a completely public website. Mr Maclaren said the changes will mean Google's site will no longer be regarded as a no-go area within some school networks. "It has some positive aspects, particularly the removal of comments - and ads - which would have made so much of YouTube fall foul of many educational filters. "Of course, more video material will be useful to students and teachers, particularly those using virtual learning environments where they can embed or 'mash-up' content into lessons." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story YouTube's website redesign puts the focus on channels 8 March 2012 Schools must embrace technology 14 January 2010 Event backs new school technology 22 March 2006 Related Internet links YouTube For Schools The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.