https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-50674909
Chinese residents worry about rise of facial recognition - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Chinese residents worry about rise of facial recognition By Sam Shead Technology reporter 5 December 2019 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-50674909 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Some buses in Shanghai have had facial recognition systems fitted to them A survey by a Beijing research institute indicates growing pushback against facial recognition in China. Some 74% of respondents said they wanted the option to be able to use traditional ID methods over the tech to verify their identity. Worries about the biometric data being hacked or otherwise leaked was the main concern cited by the 6,152 respondents. Facial recognitions systems are being rolled out in stations, schools, and shopping centres across the country. The survey, first reported in the West by The Financial Times, was released on Thursday by the Nandu Personal Information Protection Research Centre. It has been described as being one of the first major studies of its kind into public opinion on the subject in mainland China. Some 80% of respondents said they were concerned that facial recognition system operators had lax security measures. Separate research suggests that they have good reason to be concerned. China was ranked the worst of 50 surveyed countries in a study looking at how extensively and invasively biometric ID and surveillance systems are being deployed. The work was carried out by the cybersecurity firm Comparitech. It said China had no "specific law to protect citizens' biometrics" and highlighted a "lack of safeguards for employees in the workplace". Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Some cities are deploying facial recognition systems at road crossings to identify and deter jaywalkers Surveillance concerns Nandu's survey was carried out via the internet between October and November. In its sample, 57% of respondents voiced concern about their movements being tracked. In addition, 84% of people said they wanted to be able to review the data that facial recognition systems had collected on them and to be able to request that it should be deleted. The majority said they wanted an option to be able to use ID cards, driving licenses and/or passports as an alternative. But the survey also suggested that between 60 to 70% of Chinese residents believed facial recognition made public places safer. Hard to avoid China has more facial recognition cameras than any other country and they are often hard to avoid. Earlier this week, local reports said that Zhengzhou, the capital of the northeastern Henan province, had become the first Chinese city to roll the tech out across all its subway train stations. Commuters can use the technology to automatically authorise payments instead of scanning a QR code on their phones. For now, it is a voluntary option, said the China Daily. Earlier this month, university professor Guo Bing announced he was suing Hangzhou Safari Park for enforcing facial recognition. Prof Guo, a season ticket holder at the park, had used his fingerprint to enter for years, but was no longer able to do so. The case was covered in the government-owned media, indicating that the Chinese Communist Party is willing for the private use of the technology to be discussed and debated by the public. Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionWATCH: BBC's John Sudworth put a Chinese facial recognition system to the test in December 2007 But the state continues to make some uses of the tech mandatory. At the start of the month, a new regulation came into force that requires mobile phone subscribers to have their faces scanned when they sign a new contract with a provider. The authorities say the move is designed to prevent the resale of Sim cards to help combat fraud. But country-watchers have suggested it may also be used to help the police and other officials keep track of the population. Related Topics China Surveillance Facial recognition Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.