https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-25670452
Reed Hastings: The 4K King - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Reed Hastings: The 4K King Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 9 January 2014 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-25670452 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionReed Hastings, Netflix chief executive: "We are at the very beginning of internet television" In a suite in the same hotel where Prince Harry had his famous Las Vegas party, I met the man whose mission is to revolutionise television. Reed Hastings, the CEO of Netflix, has been chipping away at this task for 15 years since founding the company as an online movie rental service. For long periods, it looked like it was going nowhere, and investors questioned its future. But now Netflix is on a roll, its shares have risen almost fourfold in a year and its CEO has been awarded a big pay rise. And the luxury suite where we met told the story of how perceptions of Netflix have changed. It was furnished with what appeared to be framed family photographs - actually stars of some of Netflix own productions, including Kevin Spacey in House of Cards. This expensive, ambitious series was a gamble that paid off, attracting millions of new subscribers around the world. Until then, Netflix had been dependent completely on bought-in content, which came with lots of restrictions. That, says Hastings, meant painful negotiations with Hollywood and TV producers - "they'd say we want $10m for this show, we'd offer $1m" - and lots more aggravation once a price had been agreed. "We realised with each country that we had different licensing issues, different release dates," he explains. "It made no sense - the only way to fix it was to do our own shows then they're available to everyone at the same time." Image copyright AP Image caption Kevin Spacey - coming soon in ultra-high definition That's a revolutionary move - and one that speaks to the frustrations of anyone who has wanted to get hold of latest episodes of popular new shows without resorting to illegal downloading. Around the hotel suite, different screens showed the various ways you can now get access to the Netflix platform, but pride of place went to a Sony 4K television showing a trailer for the second series of House of Cards. At CES, Hastings took to the stage with Sony's Kazuo Hirai to announce that the series would be filmed in the new ultra-high definition format. He says 4K is a big opportunity for Netflix and for internet television in general. "It will be the first format that is internet only - broadcast, cable, satellite they're not going to have ultra HD at least in the next five years," he says. So, if you want to see every bead of sweat on Kevin Spacey's forehead as he plots his way across Washington, you'll need to splash out on a new television and a Netflix subscription. This makes Hastings an even more powerful figure in an industry which will have to work hard to persuade consumers to move to the new format. But shooting in 4K won't come cheap, meaning Netflix investors will have to wait even longer to see their company make decent money. Hastings seems to be following the same line as other internet firms, notably Amazon, in worrying far more about growth than profits. "We're similar to Amazon," he admitted to me. "We focus on growth." The internet revolution has been much slower to change TV viewing habits than many - including Hastings - predicted in the late 1990s. But now that change is coming - and like Amazon in online retailing, it is Netflix which looks best placed to profit in an on demand world. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.