https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-10713199
Facebook hits 500m user milestone - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Facebook hits 500m user milestone 21 July 2010 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-10713199 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionFacebook hits half a billion users Social network giant Facebook has registered its 500 millionth member, the firm has announced. The site, which launched in 2004, has gained around 100 million new users in the last six months. Facebook said the number was "an important milestone" and added that it was "humbled and inspired" by the stories of its users, which it is asking people to share on the site. The UK currently has around 26m Facebook users. Stuart Miles of tech blog Pocket Lint said its success was down to "word of mouth". "There are so many people online and so many people wanting to share with each other's friends - it's like a snowball," he told BBC News. "It started off small, rolled and rolled, then all of a sudden not just your immediate circle of friends are on it but loads of people are, and they're all evangelising about why you should be on it too. "The next milestone, which will probably be 750m, won't take as long - the more you have the more it spreads, like that snowball." Mr Zuckerberg recently said that the site was "almost guaranteed" to reach one billion users. However, the site has also had its share of problems. It recently came under fire for making repeated changes to its privacy settings and thousands of people threatened to boycott it in May 2010. But influential blogger Robert Scoble told the BBC that, despite the controversy, most people were not put off. "There is no expectation of privacy there," he said. "Privacy stuff does not resonate with 'normal' people." As Facebook has grown, many of its competitors have shrunk or disappeared. MySpace, owned by News Corp, was once the poster child of social networking. Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionFacebook's director of European policy, Richard Allan, talks about the site's future aims However, Facebook raced past it in 2008. MySpace currently has around 65 million unique users. "MySpace is aimed at kids and they have limited access to computers," said Mr Miles. Another competitor, Bebo, has also faced difficulty. In June this year its owner, AOL, sold the site just two years after it bought it for $850m (£417m). The company said it was unable to provide the "significant investment" Bebo needed to compete with its social networking rivals. One site that appears to be growing alongside Facebook is Twitter. Measurements of Twitter traffic are notoriously difficult as many users do not interact with the service through the website. Instead, they use desktop software and mobile phones. However, it is estimated to be approaching 200m users, including Mr Scoble. "I love [Facebook] for talking to personal friends, keeping up to date with what they're doing," he said. "But I'm more of a Twitter user, I use that to get information out and talk to a community that cares about the same things that I do." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story The unintended consequences of Facebook 21 July 2010 Facebook duo's fight with founder 1 April 2010 Facebook challenged by ambitious upstarts 21 May 2010 Facebook allowing 'panic button' 13 July 2010 Facebook "clickjacking" spreads across site 3 June 2010 Pakistani court removes Facebook ban 31 May 2010 Facebook is a major influence on girls, says survey 18 May 2010 Facebook removing stalker apps 16 March 2010 How to protect your privacy on Facebook 7 June 2010 Related Internet links Robert Scoble Euan Semple Facebook Facebook Pocket Lint The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.