https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18091697
Google patents augmented reality Project Glass design - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Google patents augmented reality Project Glass design 16 May 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18091697 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Images from the patents show different versions of the technology Search giant Google has patented the design of its augmented-reality glasses, known as Project Glass. Three patents for a "wearable display device" with characteristics of the much-talked about futuristic glasses were submitted last autumn. The patents reference such functions as displaying data in front of the wearer's eyes and playing audio. In April, Google revealed details of its research into the glasses and showed a demo video of a prototype . The patents show images of different versions of augmented reality glasses, some with lenses and some without. Cyborg eye Google is working on the project in its research lab, Google X. The prototypes are currently being tested by the firm's executives, including Sergey Brin and Vic Gundotra. The demo video showed science fiction-like glasses equipped with a microphone and partly transparent tiny screen right above the user's right eye. Image caption The glasses are said to have many functions of a smartphone Besides displaying information about the wearer's surroundings, the glasses were shown to be used to communicate with other people, browse the web, listen to music and also take photos. Similar tech There are other firms researching the augmented-reality eyewear. For instance, Oakley is currently developing similar glasses targeted at athletes and other sportsmen and women. A number of companies had attempted to pioneer the concept as well, but did not get very far because their versions required users to carry separate battery equipment, as analyst at Davies Murphy Group Europe told the BBC in an earlier interview. "There are huge opportunities for tailored advertising with augmented reality systems - especially if they have in-built GPS location tracking," Chris Green said. "The monetisation opportunities would be enormous - but there are still big issues involved with shrinking the technology and making the computer that receives and processes the data truly portable." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Google unveils Project Glass augmented reality eyewear 4 April 2012 Oakley researches augmented reality glasses for athletes 17 April 2012 Hewlett Packard opens doors to its HP Labs UK research base 8 March 2012 Augmented reality takes off in US 3 January 2012 Google tests 'intelligent' cars 10 October 2010 Related Internet links Project Glass - Google+ United States Patent D659741 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.