https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17728039
Parents sue Apple over in-app game charges - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Parents sue Apple over in-app game charges 16 April 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17728039 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Buying in-app add-ons typically means players can progress more quickly Apple is being sued by parents who claim the iPhone-maker is unfairly profiting from in-app payments in games aimed at children. Many games on the iOS platform are free to download but offer game add-ons, some of which cost nearly £70. The group said it was too easy for children to run up big bills without "authorisation of their parents". Apple had called for the case to be dismissed, pointing out that in-app purchasing can now be disabled. However, US District Judge Edward Davila said the hearing could now go ahead. Apple's purchasing system allows users to enter their credit-card details once and then authorise future payments for apps and other items with just a password. In a recent update to its iOS software, Apple added extra steps in the in-app purchasing process, including the requirement to enter an additional password to buy items within apps. It is now also possible to turn the feature off entirely. However, the group of parents, led by attorney Garen Meguerian, said children were still encouraged to buy items by the games' addictive nature, and parents might not be fully aware of the financial implications. Apple has not yet responded to requests for comment on the case. Other mobile platforms, such as Google's Android, also offer in-app purchasing functions. Smurfberry Shop In a court filing first made in 2011, Mr Meguerian highlighted several titles which he believed were developed "strategically to induce purchases of Game Currency". Among them was Smurfs' Village, developed by Capcom. While the game itself is free, in-app purchases available in the "Smurfberry Shop" range from £2.99 to £69.99. A warning message in the game's description states that Smurfs' Village "charges real money for additional in-app content". It is possible to play the game without spending money. However, progress is typically far slower for the player. It was more than our monthly mortgage repayment Niamh Bolton, Parent One review of the game states: "You really wont get anywhere with just the free stuff." In-app payments have been the subject of scrutiny in the US. Last year, the practice was investigated by the US Federal Trade Commission which ruled developers must do more to warn parents about the content of their games. 'Difficult steps' In the UK, Niamh Bolton told the BBC she felt "physically sick" after learning her 10-year-old daughter had totted up a bill of more than £1,500 while playing Tap Pet Hotel. The game, developed by San Francisco-based Pocket Gems, is part of a wider "Tap" series which was also referred to in Mr Meguerian's court filing. Ms Bolton said the purchases, which were made before Apple added the in-app disabling feature, were made within two hours. "It was more than our monthly mortgage repayment," she told the BBC. "We didn't have that sort of spare cash in the bank account." She was able to get the money refunded after contacting Apple customer services. "The difficulty we had was contacting iTunes," she said. "I had to go through a series of very difficult steps to send an email to them." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Giving smartphone apps away could mean big bucks 25 August 2011 Google denies app store payment policies have changed 12 March 2012 Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.