https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-10891355
Private browsing modes leak data - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Private browsing modes leak data By Mark Ward Technology correspondent, BBC News 6 August 2010 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-10891355 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Most modern browsers have a private or incognito mode The private browsing modes on modern browsers leak information about where people have visited, suggests a study. Available in many browsers, the private modes are not supposed to log information about sites visited. However, the study found that in many cases the privacy mode was compromised by additions to the browser or extra security on websites. Many extras that people add to browsers can "completely undermine" the anonymity of private browsing. Computer scientist Dan Boneh from Stanford University led the study of private browsing modes on the Firefox, Internet Explorer, Chrome and Safari browsers. The researchers tested when people used private browsing modes by employing adverts that log the state of the machine on which the ad is being displayed. It found that private browsing was most popular when people visited adult sites. Private browsing modes typically work by erasing the information logged when any site is visited. These logs include small text files known as cookies, entries on a history file and data put in the browser's cache. However the study found that other ways in which a browser logs data were often left undisturbed at the end of a private browsing session. This occurred, for example, if the site being visited used security systems such as those which protect data sent back and forth during web purchases. Add-ons or plug-ins for browsers, particularly those that help with searching, also readily log information that the private browsing mode was supposed to delete, found the study. The researchers concluded that, in some cases, these weaknesses were able to "completely defeat the benefits of private mode". The paper will be presented at the Usenix Security conference which is being held in Washington, DC from 11-13 August. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Web attack knows where you live 3 August 2010 Web browser to get 'privacy mode' 21 August 2008 Related Internet links An analysis of private browsing modes in modern browsers USENIX Security Conference The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.