https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51384304
Coronavirus: LG pulls out of Mobile World Congress - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Coronavirus: LG pulls out of Mobile World Congress 5 February 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51384304 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Image copyright Getty Images Image caption LG had a prominent booth at MWC last year LG has pulled out of one of the world's biggest tech shows citing fears over the spread of coronavirus. The South Korean tech firm has cancelled its appearance at Mobile World Congress (MWC), which is held every year in Barcelona. MWC opens on 24 Feb and is the world's largest mobile-focused tech expo. China's ZTE has also dropped plans for a press conference at the event due to the illness, but it will still host a stand. Separately, Sony has said coronavirus could negatively affect production in its factories, which make components for Apple and Huawei products. Telecommunications trade body the GSMA, MWC's organisers, said of the virus yesterday: "There is minimal impact on the event thus far". However, within hours, LG announced it was pulling out. "With the safety of its employees and general public foremost in mind, LG has decided to withdraw from exhibiting and participating in MWC 2020 later this month in Barcelona, Spain," LG said in a statement. "This decision will prevent needlessly exposing hundreds of LG employees to international travel, which most health experts have advised." The firm added that it would hold "separate events in the near future" instead. "You have to say it's probably an entirely sensible response given the situation," said Simon Forrest, tech analyst at Futuresource. To date, there has been just one confirmed case of coronavirus in Spain. No handshakes "We have spoken to LG and regret not seeing them at this year's MWC20 Barcelona," a spokeswoman for the GSMA said. She added that MWC was still due to proceed as planned. Previously, the GSMA organisation said it had taken extra precautions for this year's conference, including putting in place a "no-handshake policy", as well as increased cleaning and disinfection, and the provision of more sanitising materials for public use. "They have to be taking this seriously," said Mr Forrest, who is currently planning to attend MWC himself. There was confusion after multiple tech sites reported that Chinese tech firm ZTE had followed LG and also pulled out of MWC. Image copyright ZTE Image caption ZTE has hosted MWC press conferences in past years to launch new phones Spanish newspapers El Pais and La Vangardia said ZTE told them it would not host a press conference that had originally been scheduled for 25 February. ZTE then published a statement saying that the firm's appearance at MWC would go ahead "as planned" A spokeswoman told the BBC: "The handset launch event is cancelled - but the product will be demonstrated at the booth. "There is no other change, no other cancellations." A spokeswoman at the GSMA appeared to be unaware of ZTE's press conference decision, and denied that it had been cancelled. There have been more than 24,000 cases of coronavirus in China to date but only a handful of cases - by comparison - elsewhere in the world. Globally, nearly 500 people have now died because of the virus. The UK Foreign Office has advised all British citizens to leave China if they can. Virus versus sales Hon Hai, the Chinese manufacturer which produces iPhones for Apple, has cut its sales forecast for the year, thanks to the spread of coronavirus. This is because the virus may affect supply chains in Asia, where factories make components and hardware for tech firms around the world. Hon Hai's chairman told Bloomberg that he expected sales growth between 1% and 3%, rather than a previously projected 3-5%. And Sony, which also produces components for Apple and other tech firms, including Huawei, told investors on an earnings call that coronavirus may also affect its production lines for image sensors. Although the firm raised its overall revenue outlook for the year, chief financial officer Hiroki Totoki said: "We cannot deny that our production and sales supply chain for the image sensor and electronics business could be affected enormously." Learn more about the new virus Image copyright Getty How worried should we be? The city now in lockdown Can wearing masks stop the spread of viruses? Coronavirus: A visual guide to the outbreak Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionThe BBC's online health editor on what we know about the virus Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Mobile World Congress ZTE LG Barcelona Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Coronavirus: Ten passengers on cruise ship test positive for virus 5 February 2020 Coronavirus: What it does to the body 14 March 2020 Why is the MWC tech show full of men? 27 February 2019 Mobile World Congress: Why do smartphones look so alike? 24 February 2018 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.