https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-52049520
Coronavirus: UK’s WhatsApp bot working after false start - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Coronavirus: UK’s WhatsApp bot working after false start By Chris Baraniuk Technology reporter 26 March 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-52049520 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Image caption Initially, the bot failed to respond to some users and they had to say 'hi' again A Covid-19 WhatsApp bot set up by the UK government is finally working after problems during launch on Wednesday. Members of the public who message the bot can access pre-determined chunks of advice on symptoms or how to avoid spreading the disease, for example. But it failed to work for some users after its launch, providing nothing more than an error message. However, the BBC has verified that the bot, which also warns about coronavirus myths, is now working as intended. One of those who encountered initial teething problems, Hashir Milhan, says all seems to be resolved. “I tried sending the opening ‘hi’ message with no response,” London-based designer Mr Milhan told the BBC. He said the bot did respond later – but only to send him an error message. But on Thursday, he was able to access the information without problems. He noted that the information was generally available online but added: “It’s reassuring that this comes from a verified account.” The government said the service was designed to allow members of the public to "get answers to the most common questions about coronavirus". But Mr Milhan said he had hoped the bot would be able to engage in and understand conversations, in order to respond to queries people might have on the spot. To start receiving messages, users should send “hi” via WhatsApp to the number 07860 064422. International users can use +44 7860 064 422. LIVE: Latest updates from the BBC A SIMPLE GUIDE: What are the symptoms? AVOIDING CONTACT: Should I self-isolate? STRESS: How to protect your mental health MAPS AND CHARTS: Visual guide to the outbreak The UK government does not have an official emergency alert system with which to contact citizens directly during a crisis. However, authorities are distributing information through various channels, including websites and social media, as well as the new WhatsApp bot. Telecoms firms were also asked to send out an alert to all customers via text message this week, stating that people must now stay at home as much as possible. The texts have rolled out gradually to users and scammers have already tried to take advantage of the situation. Some have sent fake messages accusing individuals of leaving their homes more than once a day - the limit set by the government - and telling them they are now liable to pay a fine. Number 10 said people should trust only the official message. Image Copyright @Number10press @Number10press Report Image Copyright @Number10press @Number10press Report Related Topics Self-isolation Coronavirus pandemic UK government WhatsApp Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Coronavirus: Rishi Sunak to unveil financial aid for self-employed 26 March 2020 Coronavirus: Tracking app aims for one million downloads 25 March 2020 Top Stories Trump 'considering quarantine on New York' The president says he is considering quarantining the state, but its governor expresses concern. 28 March 2020 UK will do well to keep deaths under 20,000 - health official 28 March 2020 India defiant as millions struggle under lockdown 28 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now ‘Beaten and abused for doing my job in lockdown’ A snapshot of American life under lockdown Five glimmers of hope to beat the coronavirus blues Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus Video Clubbing in the time of coronavirus The saxophone legend who inspired a disco groove Your top tips for a weekend indoors ★★★★★ Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.