https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17776180
Blind-spot safety technology should be mandatory, report says - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Blind-spot safety technology should be mandatory, report says 19 April 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17776180 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption The number of accidents involving big vehicles and cyclists has risen, researchers said All buses and lorries in the UK should be fitted with collision-avoidance technology by 2015, a report has recommended. The Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) said more could be done to protect those in drivers' blind-spots. The report suggested the adoption of available technology, such as specialised sensors warning drivers of nearby cyclists. The report also called for mandatory automated emergency response systems. The IMechE said services like eCall - which can inform emergency services of an accident even if a driver is unconscious - had the potential to cut road fatalities by as much as 10%. Seriously injured "The alarming rise in cyclist deaths on British roads needs to be addressed urgently," said Philippa Oldham, head of transport at the Institution of Mechanical Engineers. "Cyclist deaths have risen by 7% in the past year, with about eight cyclists being killed or seriously injured daily on British roads. "A number of these deaths could be prevented if technology to prevent driver 'blind spots' were made mandatory for all large vehicles." The report , published on Thursday, recommended the adoption of technology called Lateral Safe, a collision avoidance system being developed by the European Council for Automotive Research and Development. The system uses sensors placed around large vehicles to warn drivers of potential obstacles, including cyclists and pedestrians. Many accidents are caused when an obstacle appears in a driver's blind-spot - an area not visible in the vehicle's mirrors. Other suggestions included the adoption of autonomous driving technology, such as those found in Google's Driverless car , which uses data gathered using Google Street View as well as sensors and cameras on the car. Ms Oldham added: "By putting the UK at the forefront of intelligent transport technology we can also build an industry that is set to redefine the car in the next few decades, tapping into a market that will be worth about £40bn by 2020." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Bow roundabout 'cannot be made safe' - TfL 4 April 2012 Transport minister to meet safety group after cyclist deaths 7 March 2012 Fear of injury deterring cyclists 6 February 2012 Related Internet links Institution of Mechanical Engineers The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.