https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-19829906
Nissan car drives and parks itself at Ceatec - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Nissan car drives and parks itself at Ceatec 4 October 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-19829906 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption The car seems to "recognise" road markings and is able to stop at a crossing An electric car that is able to park itself and come to the driver when "called" has been unveiled at the Ceatec 2012 show in Tokyo. Nissan's NSC-2015 is only a prototype, but its name suggests the carmaker aims to have it on the market by 2015. Many car companies have been working on autonomous technology, with a number of driverless cars unveiled in recent months. But one analyst warned that the mass use of such cars was a long way off. The NSC-2015 is a modified version of Nissan's Leaf model. It relies on sensors, cameras, computers and 4G communication technology for wireless links to navigate, and robotics to turn the steering wheel, change gears and brake. When demonstrated at Ceatec, the car drove itself at about 3mph (5km/h) in a straight line forward and in reverse, and was able to turn. It was shown that the car could recognise road markings and was able to stop at a crossing. A Nissan representative also controlled the car from the outside, making it drive towards him as he pressed some buttons on his phone. "After the driver exits the NSC-2015, it starts to park itself automatically, following the instructions given by smartphone," the company said. "The vehicle looks for a vacant parking space while identifying its surroundings; once it detects an open parking space automated parking begins. "The driver can also use smartphone commands to make the NSC-2015 vehicle leave the parking space and return to the place where he or she is. I think that market for driverless cars is limited at the moment... people still have a fairly strong desire to control their car Paul Newton, IHS Automotive "While parked, the car's security camera system automatically works with a camera installed in the vehicle. If the system detects suspicious behaviour, the driver is alerted automatically by a report to his or her smartphone." However, Tooru Futami, engineering director at electronics engineering development division at Nissan, told Forbes that the car was not yet able to self-drive down the street or park itself in any space. He said the demo version could only self-park in an area equipped with sensors and restricted to other robotic cars to avoid the risk of collision. Showcasing technology Several car manufacturers and other companies such as Google have recently demonstrated driverless vehicles and three US states - California, Nevada and Florida - even allow self-driving cars on their roads. But one analyst told the BBC the mass use of such vehicles was still some way off. "Self-driving cars is the way we're heading - it's the pinnacle of the convergence of a lot of technologies," said Paul Newton from IHS Automotive. "You have ad hoc car-to-car networking which will alert cars of problems ahead, roadside transmissions to limit speed, controlled steering and braking - and all these technologies will eventually converge to a point where you can arrive at something that drives itself. "But I think that market for driverless cars is limited at the moment in terms of consumer perception. People still have a fairly strong desire to control their car, and producing these vehicles is more showcasing what's possible than what's likely at the moment." He added that it was more likely the driver would be able to actively operate the vehicle in some places, but once he or she got into a controlled urban environment, the vehicle would take over. "You'll arrive in a town - and there will be a signal sent to your car not to exceed a maximum speed, and you won't be able to, and distance to the car in front will also be controlled," he said. "But it's still a long way off." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Will driverless cars mean computer crashes? 1 October 2012 Will chatting smart cars become a reality soon? 9 July 2012 Driverless cars and how they would change motoring 10 May 2012 Google gets Nevada driving licence for self-drive car 8 May 2012 Related Internet links Nissan The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.