https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16000381
US senator calls for answers on phone 'snooping' - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology US senator calls for answers on phone 'snooping' 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16000381 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Carrier IQ has been given two weeks to explain its actions by a US Senator The maker of the smartphone software that triggered a snooping row has been called to account by a US Senator. Senator Al Franken has written to Carrier IQ asking it to explain the "troubling"findings of security expert Trevor Eckhart. Mr Eckhart claimed Carrier IQ software could log everything people did on their smartphones but did not ask for consent to record data. Carrier IQ said its software helped diagnose faults, not spy on users. Sensitive data The row blew up afterMr Eckhart posted a video on YouTubethat he said showed Carrier IQ could record a user's location, keystrokes and the websites they visited. Carrier IQ tried to silence Mr Eckhart with the threat of legal action but backed down following the intervention of the digital rights group the Electronic Frontier Foundation. In a statement, Carrier IQ said its software did not record keystrokes but was a diagnostic tool used by operators to help pinpoint what caused network glitches. In the letter Senator Franken sent to Carrier IQ, he asked the company to clarify what types of data its software captured and what was done with that information. He wrote that, despite Carrier IQ's claims, some of the data being acquired had nothing to do with diagnostics. If Mr Eckhart's findings were borne out, he warned, Carrier IQ could have broken US law. Image caption Mr Eckhart demonstrated his findings via a video on YouTube "The revelation that the locations and other sensitive data of millions of Americans are being secretly recorded and possibly transmitted is deeply troubling," said Mr Franken in a statement. "Carrier IQ has a lot of questions to answer," he said. Carrier IQ has until 14 December to respond to the letter. Mr Franken wrote the letter in his capacity as chairman of the Senate subcommittee on privacy, technology and the law. Key alert In an interview with the All Things D website, Andrew Coward, head of marketing at Carrier IQ, explained what the company's software did. He said the code listened for key presses to spot strings of numbers that triggered an alert. These alerts were linked to problems with a phone or a network. Carrier IQ relayed the alert to operators, said Mr Coward, and discarded all the other data. It also logged some other information, such as location and cellphone tower data, to help spot when calls or texts went astray. He said the decision to use Carrier IQ lay with mobile operators and it was up to them to decide what information was collected. Carrier IQ claims its software is deployed on more than 140 million devices. The software has been found on Samsung handsets and some Android phones from HTC. Both said it was installed at the request of operators. It has also been found on the iPhone 4. Apple said it had stopped using the software on the iPhone 4S and other devices running its iOS 5 system software. US operators known to be using it include AT&T and Sprint.UK operators told The Guardian that they did not use the software. Nokia and RIM have issued statements saying they do not let the software ship on their products. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Smartphone 'surveillance' app row 1 December 2011 Apple, Google in privacy hearing 11 May 2011 How much privacy can you expect? 22 November 2011 HTC to release urgent privacy fix 4 October 2011 Related Internet links Carrier IQ Trevor Eckhart Electronic Frontier Foundation Senator Al Franken The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.