https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-28949472
Syrian beheading photos spur call for Facebook rethink - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Syrian beheading photos spur call for Facebook rethink By Leo Kelion Technology desk editor 27 August 2014 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-28949472 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright facebook Image caption A Facebook user had complained about images of severed heads, including this picture, censored here One of Facebook's safety advisers is to call on it to introduce safeguards to prevent users from stumbling upon gruesome images. The move follows complaints about photos showing severed heads taken in a part of Syria controlled by the jihadist group Islamic State (IS). The firm initially refused to delete the images, saying they did not contravene its guidelines. It later blocked the material after being contacted by the BBC. Stephen Balkam, chief executive of the US's Family Online Safety Institute (Fosi), said he planned to raise the issue next month at a meeting of the Facebook Safety Advisory Board, on which he serves. "There may be instances in which graphic photos and videos, like the beheadings in Syria, can be justified as being in the public interest," he told the BBC. "However, if they are hosted on Facebook or other social media platforms, there should be two barriers put in place. "First, an interstitial, or cover page over the graphic images. With an interstitial in place, a user, particularly a child, will not have the image appear in their timeline or be easily seen if they are sent a link to the images. "Secondly, there should be an age gate, saying that you must verify that you are 18 years of age. While this is easily circumvented, it does at least warn the user and may well deter both kids and adults alike." Image copyright Facebook Image caption Facebook did briefly cover up a video of a Mexican beheading in 2013 Mr Balkam had previously criticised Facebook last year after it rejected calls to delete a video clip showing a woman being beheaded in Mexico. At the time, the site did briefly place a warning over the clip, before deciding to remove it on the basis that it "glorified" violence. Facebook's policy is that while the sharing of graphic content for sadistic pleasure is banned, the use of distressing images that are designed to condemn violence or to highlight an important issue is permitted. "We do sometimes see people come to Facebook to share experiences of the world around them and on occasion this may result in content that some may find upsetting," a spokesman told the BBC. "We expect people that want to use Facebook to condemn or report on violence, to do so in a responsible manner, which may include warning people about the nature of content in the videos and imagery they're sharing and carefully selecting the audience for the content. "Our goal is to strike a balance between allowing people to comment on the often brutal world around them, whilst protecting people from the most graphic of content." Arabic translation The most recent controversy centred on photos of severed heads posted to a Facebook page operated by a group called the Raqqa Media Center (RMC), which is based in an Islamic State-controlled city in Syria. Image copyright Facebook Image caption The Raqqa Media Center operates in an IS-controlled part of Syria A producer from the broadcaster Al Jazeera reported the material to the site earlier this week, in a personal capacity. She received a response saying: "It doesn't violate our community standards." When the BBC subsequently contacted Facebook, a spokesman initially defended the decision noting that "the page is run by a Syrian opposition group, not IS". He also referred to a 2013 blog post in which RMC complained that its members had been harassed by Isis, the name formerly used by IS. Facebook's rules ban IS and "terrorist groups" from using its site. However, its community managers appear to have overlooked that one image posted on 24 August - which showed a man's foot pressed against a recently severed head - was accompanied by text in Arabic that did appear to glorify the violence involved. "Our people in Tabqa suffered, now we are stepping on the heads of people working in the airports," it stated. This might have been missed because Facebook's site offers a translation service powered by Microsoft, which produced an incomprehensible interpretation. However, Facebook's review team does employ Arabic speakers. Observers note that the material posted by RMC has changed in tone since 2013, and now adopts IS terminology and rhetoric. Image copyright Reuters Image caption IS militants took control of the Tabqa airbase from the government last weekend "They are operating in a city that is under jihadist control and it appears that the media environment there has become increasingly restrictive," said Steve Metcalf of BBC Monitoring, which provides analysis to the UK government and others. "IS is said to have imposed censorship and vetting of material posted online or distributed to other news organisations. "This seems to be reflected in recent postings by RMC, which refrain from any criticism of IS, even posting eulogies for some dead IS fighters." Less gruesome images released by RMC are still used by several parts of the mainstream media, including the Daily Mail, Fox News and Washington Times. However, its account had been suspended on Twitter and no videos have appeared on its YouTube account since July. Facebook has now blocked all access to RMC's page on its site. Warning tags One expert said Facebook needed to do more to protect its 1.3 billion users from distressing material. "Other sites have long worked this out," said Dr Bernie Hogan, a social networks researcher at the University of Oxford. "Reddit, for instance, now uses the 'not safe for work tag' to restrict images that are violent in nature and clearly reprehensible to people. "Facebook should follow in those footsteps and have, if not a zero-tolerance policy, at least some way for the community to very easily tag something as vulgar or violent." Image copyright Twitter Image caption The Twitter account used by RMC was suspended earlier this month But the digital rights group La Quadrature du Net said it would be concerned if Facebook started acting as "some kind of private police" by deciding itself which images should be hidden. "Users could have an option to flag them, and after five, 10 or 100 such flags, such a page could be automatically added," said its co-founder Jeremie Zimmermann. "There is a whole difference between allowing users to flag content and asking Facebook to do it." Related Topics Syria Facebook Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Syria conflict: Islamic State seizes Tabqa airbase 24 August 2014 Facebook makes U-turn over decapitation video clip 23 October 2013 Facebook lets beheading clips return to social network 21 October 2013 Facebook irresponsible over beheading videos, says PM 22 October 2013 Related Internet links Facebook La Quadrature du Net Dr Bernie Hogan The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.