https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-11535370
Facebook offers temporary log-ins for public computers - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Facebook offers temporary log-ins for public computers 13 October 2010 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-11535370 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Users can text to get a temporary password Facebook is launching one-time passwords in an effort to make it safer to log on to the social network from public computers. It also claims the system will help prevent cybercriminals accessing users' accounts. Users need to text the words 'otp' to 32665 and they will be sent a temporary password that will expire after 20 minutes. But security experts questioned whether the system was safe. Sign out "If someone else is able to gain access to your phone then that's an open door for mischief-makers to access your Facebook account," said Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at security firm Sophos. It may also not be a foolproof method of avoiding Facebook hackers. "A temporary password may stop keylogging spyware giving cybercriminals a permanent backdoor into your account, but it doesn't stop malware from spying upon your activities online and seeing what's happening on your screen," he said. Users of the system must have a mobile phone number registered to their account, which could also open the system up to exploitation, thinks Mr Cluley. "Do you know if you've registered your mobile phone number on Facebook? Would you notice if someone changed it? Imagine a scenario where some 'fraper' changes the mobile number of your account to one to which they have access. That may mean that anytime they like they could access your Facebook account," he said. Facebook also launched another new feature which will allow people to sign out of Facebook remotely, aimed at those who log in to the social network via a friends phone or computer and then forget to sign out. People will be able to keep a closer eye on the status of their accounts, Jake Brill wrote in the official Facebook blog. "In the unlikely event that someone accesses your account without your permission, you can also shut down the unauthorised login before resetting your password," he wrote. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Is the Facebook movie the truth about Mark Zuckerberg? 30 September 2010 Canada approves Facebook changes 22 September 2010 Facebook data harvester speaks out 29 July 2010 Details of 100m Facebook users collected and published 29 July 2010 Related Internet links Facebook blog Graham Cluley's blog The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.