https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-49205092
Apple and Google stop workers playing back voice recordings - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Apple and Google stop workers playing back voice recordings By Chris Baraniuk Technology reporter 2 August 2019 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-49205092 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Virtual assistants are supposed to send audio to remote computer servers only if they hear a "wake" word Apple and Google are temporarily stopping workers listening to voice recordings captured by smart speakers and virtual assistants. It follows a Guardian report that third-party contractors used by Apple had heard people having sex and discussing private medical information. Siri and other services can activate in error after wrongly picking up sounds they mishear as their "wake" words. Apple said the move would affect users worldwide. Google suspended the practice across the EU on 10 July but has only just confirmed the fact in public. Amazon - which also uses staff to transcribe some recordings - is continuing to do so. Technology companies use staff to "grade" voice recordings to improve their virtual assistants' accuracy rates in handling requests - and take steps to anonymise the source. Google, for example, distorts the recording before it is listened to in order to disguise the user's voice. However, many members of the public were unaware of the practice until theBloomberg news agency reported the fact earlier this year. "We are committed to delivering a great Siri experience while protecting user privacy,” Apple said in a statement. “While we conduct a thorough review, we are suspending Siri grading globally." The company added in the future users' voice recordings would not be included in the grading process unless they had chosen to opt in. Germany's data protection commissioner in Hamburg has also launched an investigation into Google over the practice, with which the search company is cooperating. Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Apple's AirPods have encouraged the use of Siri as they make it possible to activate the service without having to touch an iPhone Speech-recognising assistants were "highly risky" from a privacy point of view, the regulator said in a press release. "The use of speech assistance systems must be transparent so that informed consent can be obtained from users," added the commissioner, Johannes Caspar. Google said it had already stopped transcribing voice recordings and would continue to do so for at least three months. A spokeswoman for the company said Google was "in touch" with the Hamburg data protection commissioner. "We don’t associate audio clips with user accounts during the review process, and only perform reviews for around 0.2% of all clips," she added. BBC News also asked Amazon whether it plans to suspend speech monitoring. In June, Dave Limp - the executive in charge of Alexa - said only a "tiny fraction of 1%" of voice recordings were ever listened to by humans. Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionWATCH: Amazon’s head of Alexa discussed privacy concerns, in June But he conceded the company's terms and conditions could have been clearer about the matter. The firm has also released a fresh statement. "We already offer customers the ability to opt-out of having their voice recordings used to help develop new Alexa features," it said. "The voice recordings from customers who use this opt-out are also excluded from our supervised learning workflows that involve manual review of an extremely small sample of Alexa requests. "We'll also be updating information we provide to customers to make our practices more clear." View comments Related Topics Privacy Google Internet privacy Amazon Apple Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Smart speaker recordings reviewed by humans 11 April 2019 Video Amazon’s Alexa boss Dave Limp on privacy concerns 15 June 2019 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.