https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-35594245
Apple rejects order to unlock gunman's phone - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Apple rejects order to unlock gunman's phone By Chris Foxx & Dave Lee Technology reporters 17 February 2016 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-35594245 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics San Bernardino shooting Image copyright AP Image caption Tim Cook said the FBI's request set "a dangerous precedent" Apple will contest a court order to help FBI investigators access data on the phone used by San Bernardino gunman Syed Rizwan Farook. The company had been ordered to help the FBI circumvent security software on Farook's iPhone, which the FBI said contained crucial information. In a statement, Apple chief executive Tim Cook said: "The United States government has demanded that Apple take an unprecedented step which threatens the security of our customers." "We oppose this order, which has implications far beyond the legal case at hand." Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Apple says it cannot unlock data on devices running iOS8 or newer Since September 2014, data on the latest Apple devices - such as text messages and photographs - have been encrypted by default. If a device is locked, the user's passcode is required to access the data. Entering an incorrect code 10 times will automatically erase the phone's data, if this option has been enabled. Apple says even its own staff cannot access the data. Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionWhat is encryption? The FBI has asked Apple to do two things. Firstly, it wants the company to alter Farook's iPhone so that investigators can make unlimited attempts at the passcode without the risk of erasing the data. Secondly, it wants Apple to help implement a way to rapidly try different passcode combinations, to save tapping in each one manually. The FBI wants to use what is known as a "brute force" attack, trying out every combination until stumbling across the correct one and unlocking the phone. Farook is understood to have used a four-digit passcode which means there are 10,000 possible combinations. Could Apple do what the FBI has asked? - Dr Steven Murdoch, cybersecurity expert "It's difficult to say with any degree of certainty - Apple does not disclose enough about its operating system to know. Other secure products such as smart cards are designed so that the security cannot be changed after they leave the factory. Some devices such as bank computers wipe themselves if you try to change the software. But phones are not designed primarily from a security perspective. It's possible that forcing a new version of iOS onto the phone would wipe it. Apple may have designed it in this way - and it would certainly be the more secure way to do it." Apple said the FBI's demands set "a dangerous precedent". "The FBI wants us to make a new version of the iPhone operating system, circumventing several important security features, and install it on an iPhone recovered during the investigation," wrote Mr Cook. "The government is asking Apple to hack our own users and undermine decades of security advancements that protect our customers. Image copyright AP Image caption Syed Farook and Tashfeen Malik killed 14 people in California "Opposing this order is not something we take lightly. We feel we must speak up in the face of what we see as an overreach by the US government." Farook and his wife killed 14 people in the California city last December before police fatally shot them. Analysis - Dave Lee, BBC North America Technology Reporter Apple decided to enable encryption by default to avoid precisely this kind of ethical dilemma. If it was impossible to access the data, the courts wouldn't even ask - so this approach by the FBI may have taken them by surprise. What is striking about Apple's letter is that it does not say whether or not the court's demand is technically possible. Some believe it is, via a process called a Device Firmware Upgrade. In fighting the court order, Apple will have the support of its technology peers, and perhaps the majority of its users. For the FBI, yet more frustration over an issue it feels Apple's skilled developers should be able to solve safely. Follow Dave Lee on Twitter and on Facebook "We have no sympathy for terrorists," said Mr Cook. "We are challenging the FBI's demands with the deepest respect for American democracy and a love of our country." Related Topics Cyber-security Apple San Bernardino shooting Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Apple order: White House says San Bernardino request is limited 17 February 2016 Apple ordered to unlock San Bernardino gunman's phone 17 February 2016 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.