https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26031341
Facebook: Over the hill, or enjoying middle age? - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Facebook: Over the hill, or enjoying middle age? Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 4 February 2014 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26031341 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright AFP Facebook is 10 years old. Hard to believe in two ways - it seems to have been around forever, and yet to be something brand new and of the moment. And perhaps that is the secret of its success - the ability to weave its way into our lives while constantly adapting to changing circumstances. I've spent a little time trying to find out about its early history in the UK, mainly by appealing to my Facebook friends to show they were among the earliest British members of the social network. Facebook - which started in Mark Zuckerberg's Harvard bedroom and spread across the US university's campus like wildfire - was aimed solely at students at first, and only those at the most exclusive colleges. The same was true when it arrived in the UK in 2005 - only those with Oxford, Cambridge and LSE email addresses could join. Among those who respond to my Facebook query is Jennifer Hawton who joined in June 2005 while she was reading natural sciences at Cambridge. She remembers sitting in her room thinking "I'm naturally nosy, I like to know about people", and signing up. Nine years on and working in London, she still uses it reasonably frequently, keeping in touch with old friends from university. An even earlier joiner was Curon Wyn Davies, who was studying at Jesus College, Cambridge. His timeline tells me he joined on 31 May 2005. He has dug up a real gem, the British Facebook song. With lyrics like "poke me night or day", "looking for some random play", it feels like a relic of a bygone age, when Facebook was essentially a dating app for students. Others who joined in 2005 and 2006 remember it being a real student phenomenon - "you had to have an 'ac.uk' address to join" - which may have given it an added cachet, especially for those still in school. Roaming the timeline of one of my younger BBC colleagues, who must have just left school in 2006, I found this: "Now addicted to Facebook, MySpace and MSN. Work has no chance." Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mark Zuckerberg But soon MySpace and MSN, along with Bebo and Friends Reunited, were dwindling away as Facebook spread beyond universities to, well, everyone. Parents began joining to keep in touch with their offspring. One Facebook friend tells me she joined in May 2006 - "Lost my son who'd gone on a two day bender, so I joined Facebook to put out an APB and track him down. It worked: 'Oh Mum you're so embarrassing'." Ever since I joined Facebook it has been going out of fashion By the spring of 2007 even someone as old as me was joining (for professional purposes, you understand). I made a piece for BBC Radio 4's Today Programme on whether social networking was for the more mature person - and listened as one of the more mature presenters introduced it to listeners as "Facepack". About the same time another middle-aged man, Chris Ward, joined up. Later, his daughter followed him onto Facebook. He says, "At one stage we had to moderate her usage as she was using it ALL the time - but now goes nowhere near it. Snapchat and Instagram are everything - which seems to support the recent reports on losing teen audience…" Well, maybe. But ever since I joined Facebook it has been going out of fashion. Early in 2008, it seemed "everyone" was moving to this new thing called Twitter. Then an infestation of advertising was going to send everyone to places where they would not be bombarded with messages. And every time Facebook changed its look, and its byzantine privacy settings, there were howls of outrage and threats to abandon it for something better. As for me, I've had an on-off relationship with Facebook over the years - first bewitched by the excitement of this new means of communication, then bored by the constant flow of inane updates and annoyed by the shouty requests to try this game or that new feature. I now spend most of my time with another social network which gives me a better feel for what's happening minute by minute. But I return to Facebook reasonably frequently to see what old friends and family are up to, and to share my life with a smaller circle than on that other network. Facebook is entering middle-age like many of its users - but that can be a comfortable and very prosperous time of life. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.