https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51879556
Tech Tent: Controlling coronavirus with apps - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Tech Tent: Controlling coronavirus with apps Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 13 March 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51879556 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Image copyright Getty Images Image caption This pandemic is the first to be played out via smartphones It's the first pandemic of the smartphone era - and that means governments have access to new ways of tracking the spread of Covid-19. On this week's Tech Tent, we find out about the apps that are monitoring people with the virus and look at whether they pose a long-term threat to civil liberties. In South Korea, the authorities have created an app that lets them know whether people who should be in quarantine have broken the rules. In China, the Health Code app, created by the Chinese government and hotted on e-commerce giant Alibaba's Alipay platform, lets users know if they are allowed to leave home or use public transport. But according to analysis by the New York Times, signing up to the apps can mean handing over data about your location and identity to the police. Researchers at Australia's Monash University have been looking at how countries are using tech to manage the virus. "This is the first pandemic you can access with your smartphone," Prof Mark Andrejevic tells us. "And also the first one in which smartphones are being used to track people and monitor them and control their movements." Listen to the latest Tech Tent podcast on BBC Sounds. Of course, what we often fail to realise is that our smartphones and the services on them have been tracking us for years anyway. If you are signed in to Google Maps, it may well have a complete record of everywhere you have been for years. If you use an iPhone and store your photos in the cloud, Apple will also have a good record of your movements and who you have interacted with. But in some countries, governments have long wanted to get access to this kind of data - and now they have seized their chance. In South Korea, they have gone even further than China in acquiring detailed information about people's movements during this health crisis. Their app tells users about people near them who have been infected, and where they have been. And that has privacy implications - although the information is anonymised it may not be too difficult for either app users or the police to work out exactly who each flashing dot on the map turns out to be. LIVE UPDATES: Latest on coronavirus across the world EASY STEPS: How to keep safe A SIMPLE GUIDE: What are the symptoms? GETTING READY: What is the UK's 'delay' phase? TRAVEL PLANS: What are your rights? Once the system has been put in place, it could continue to be used after this crisis is over. "There's no reason why you couldn't use it for the annual flu season, for example," says Prof Andrejevic "I do think it's possible that we might find our concern about the use of information lowered by these moments where because of an exceptional circumstance, all of a sudden this data is being mobilised." In the UK, representatives from Google, Facebook, Amazon, Palantir and other tech companies were summoned to Downing Street to be asked what they could contribute to the battle against the virus. The discussions centred around how they could provide data and expertise to help the National Health Service manage what could be a surge in demand. There is no indication yet that the UK government is considering monitoring infected people via an app. But as the crisis deepens, all countries will face the same dilemma - how much of our privacy are we willing to sacrifice in the battle to keep us healthy? Also on Tech Tent this week: we talk to author Steven Levy about his book Facebook: The Inside Story and we meet one of the robots helping on the front line of the battle against coronavirus Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Mobile phones Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Coronavirus: UK measures defended after criticism 13 March 2020 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.