https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26746694
Facebook buys the future - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Facebook buys the future Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 26 March 2014 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26746694 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Getty Images There was a swift reaction in my household to the news that Facebook is buying Oculus Rift, the start-up virtual reality gaming business. "Why would they do that? They"ll ruin it," said my 15-year-old son, a keen gamer. This is interesting for two reasons. Unlike most adults, he knows what Oculus Rift is, before it has even hit the market (the gaming forums he frequents are obsessed with it) and he has a deep distrust of Facebook. He's not alone. Markus Persson, creator of Minecraft, and revered as possibly the coolest man on earth by young gamers, took to his blog and to Twitter to condemn the deal: "@notch: We were in talks about maybe bringing a version of Minecraft to Oculus. I just cancelled that deal. Facebook creeps me out." Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionRory meets a games developer working with the Oculus Rift So Facebook in just 10 years has gone from edgy bedroom start-up to corporate creep, at least in the eyes of some. One suspects Mark Zuckerberg won't be too worried. On a conference call last night to unveil the deal, he once again outlined his grandiose mission to connect the world and open our eyes to a better future. He has faced criticism at every stage of his journey - first from crusty old social media sceptics, then from Facebook users outraged at any change, and now from young refuseniks wary of the power and wealth of his business. Each time, he has carried on regardless and mostly been proved right. Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mark Zuckerberg has faced criticism from many quarters Now, just weeks after spending $19bn on WhatsApp, he's using Facebook's ever more valuable shares to buy another plaything. And while you can just about see the industrial logic of bringing a communications tool like WhatsApp into the fold - even if the price seems insane - it is much harder to see how virtual reality hardware fits in. Maybe Zuckerberg, like many others of his age, watched 18 months ago as Oculus Rift hit its target on Kickstarter within hours, and thought "that's cool." The deal is certainly another vindication of the crowdfunding platform's ability to provide lift-off to innovative ideas that might otherwise struggle to be noticed. Two billion dollars still seems a crazy amount to pay for something that's still more an idea than a business, but it does show that Facebook's founder - like his rivals at Google - is prepared to make big bets on the future of technology. Image copyright Getty Images Image caption An earlier attempt at virtual reality, in 1998 Certainly, the more starry-eyed enthusiasts for Oculus Rift see it as having applications far beyond gaming, allowing us to enjoy virtual travel, to take virtual trips to virtual stores, creating entire worlds in which we can lose ourselves - or be shown adverts and spend money. The cynics remember the failed virtual reality experiments of the 1990s or virtual worlds like Second Life, and wonder whether VR will ever appeal to an audience beyond mostly male gamers. So, just as Google has put robotics and artificial intelligence in the spotlight with its recent acquisitions, Facebook could now spark a rush to invest in virtual reality. Whatever the fears of his detractors, Mark Zuckerberg has shown he's an optimist about the power of this technology. From 2004 when he founded his company he has had a clear vision of what the future might look like - and so far, he has been proved right. View comments Related Topics Facebook Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.