https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16284196
Google gives Mozilla lifeline as it renews Firefox deal - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Google gives Mozilla lifeline as it renews Firefox deal 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16284196 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Firefox was once seen as the only significant alternative to Microsoft's Internet Explorer Google has renewed a deal to remain the default search engine within Mozilla's Firefox web browser. The non-profit foundation said it had "negotiated a significant and mutually beneficial revenue agreement" with Google for the next three years. Some analysts had predicted Google would back out of the deal as it tries to grow the market share of its Chrome browser. Mozilla relies heavily on the income generated by search partnerships. "Under this multi-year agreement, Google Search will continue to be the default search provider for hundreds of millions of Firefox users around the world," said Gary Kovacs, Mozilla's chief executive. Alan Eustace, Google's senior vice-president of search, said: "Mozilla has been a valuable partner to Google over the years and we look forward to continuing this great partnership in the years to come." The foundation said the exact terms of the deal would not be disclosed. In its accounts for 2010, the Mozilla Foundation said it earned $121.1m (£77m) from agreements with Google, Microsoft and others. The Google agreement was thought to make up about 85% of that amount. Browser war The previous deal, which ran out in November, was signed before Google's Chrome browser had gained a presence in the so-called "browser war". What Google really wants is more advertising on the internet Whit Andrews, Analyst Some internet monitoring organisations suggest Chrome has overtaken Firefox to become the world's second most widely used browser, behind Microsoft's Internet Explorer. Many put this down to lavish advertising campaigns undertaken by the search giant across the world. Chrome's launch and subsequent growth has now put it in direct competition with Firefox, yet Google remains financially responsible for Mozilla's survival. But Whit Andrews, an analyst for Gartner, was not at all surprised by Google's decision to continue backing the browser. "What Google really wants is more advertising on the internet. It's very simple. If it drives more ads on the internet, they're into it. "Google want the shelf space. There's a shelf sitting there and they've got a product. The fact that the shelf is with a competitor, they don't really care. The alternative is that another competitor gets the shelf." Firefox 9, the Mozilla browser's latest incarnation, was launched on Tuesday. Mozilla said it was "30% faster" than previous versions - a problem that has been cited by many users switching to Chrome. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story 'Silent' updates for IE browser 16 December 2011 Mozilla calls for security checks 9 September 2011 Mozilla eyes mobiles and tablets 26 July 2011 Microsoft IE9 browser goes live 14 March 2011 Related Internet links Firefox Google Chrome The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.