https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-31890521
Facebook revamps its takedown guidelines - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Facebook revamps its takedown guidelines By Leo Kelion Technology desk editor 16 March 2015 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-31890521 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Facebook's new community standards provide more detail about what posts will be removed Facebook is providing the public with more information about what material is banned on the social network. Its revamped community standards now include a separate section on "dangerous organisations" and give more details about what types of nudity it allows to be posted. The US firm said it hoped the new guidelines would provide "clarity". One of its safety advisers praised the move but said that it was "frustrating" other steps had not been taken. Facebook says about 1.4 billion people use its service at least once a month Confused users The new guide will replace the old one on the firm's website, and will be sent to users who complain about others' posts. Monika Bicket, Facebook's global head of content policy, said the rewrite was intended to address confusion about why some takedown requests were rejected. Image copyright Facebook Image caption Facebook's guidelines urge members to report posts that they believe violate its rules "We [would] send them a message saying we're not removing it because it doesn't violate our standards, and they would write in and say I'm confused about this, so we would certainly hear that kind of feedback," she told the BBC. "And people had questions about what we meant when we said we don't allow bullying, or exactly what our policy was on terrorism. "[For example] we now make clear that not only do we not allow terrorist organisations or their members within the Facebook community, but we also don't permit praise or support for terror groups or their acts or their leaders, which wasn't something that was detailed before." Ms Bicket stressed, however, that the policies themselves had not changed. Buttocks ban The new version of the guidelines runs to nearly 2,500 words, nearly three times as long as before. The section on nudity, in particular, is much more detailed than the vague talk of "limitations" that featured previously. Facebook now states that images "focusing in on fully exposed buttocks" are banned, as are "images of female breasts if they include the nipple". It adds that the restrictions extend to digitally-created content, unless posts are for educational or satirical purposes. Likewise, text-based descriptions of sexual acts that contain "vivid detail" are forbidden. Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Facebook said some users were confused about why complaints had been rejected However, Facebook adds that it will "always allow photos of women actively engaged in breastfeeding or showing breasts with post-mastectomy scarring". Other sections with new details include: Bullying - images altered to "degrade" an individual and videos of physical bullying posted to shame the victim are now expressly forbidden Hate speech - while the site maintains the same list of banned topics, it now adds that people are allowed to share examples of others' hate speech in order to raise awareness of the issue, but they must "clearly indicate" that this is their purpose Criminal activity - the network now states that users are prohibited from celebrating any crimes they have committed, but adds that they are allowed to propose that an illegal activity should be legalised Self-injury - the site says that it will remove content that identifies victims and targets them for attack, even if done humorously. But it says that it does not consider "body modification" to be a type of self-injury Graphic violence The changes have been welcomed by the Family Online Safety Institute (Fosi), one of five independent organisations that make up Facebook's safety advisory board. "I think it's great that Facebook has revamped its community standards page to make it both more readable and accessible," the body's chief executive Stephen Balkam told the BBC. "I wish more social media sites and apps would follow suit." But he expressed concern that Facebook was still not doing enough to protect youngsters from seeing disturbing videos. While Facebook's new guidelines state that users should "warn their audience about what they are about to see if it includes graphic violence", it provides no way for members to add cover pages to clips to prevent them from auto-playing. In January, after months of pressure from Fosi and others, Facebook revealed it had introduced a way for its own staff to add such "interstitial" warnings. They have been used over clips showing the murder of a French policeman in the Charlie Hebdo attacks among other material. Image copyright Facebook Image caption Facebook staff can add interstitial warnings that stop videos from auto-playing, but only do so after acting on complaints However, Facebook only adds the alerts if it has received a complaint, rather than letting the original posters do so. "It is frustrating that after all this time, Facebook users are still not able to put up interstitials on violent or controversial images and videos," said Mr Balkam. "Facebook has done the right thing to place interstitials themselves once a user has reported an image or extreme content, but my hope is that they will bring this to ordinary users sooner rather than later." Facebook has acknowledged the point. "We are always looking to provide more tools for people to use themselves," responded Ms Bicket. "Right now we are not in a position to provide those tools to people, but we are always looking at ways to do better." View comments Related Topics Facebook Apps Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story From start-ups to grown ups: Social networks face facts 16 March 2015 Facebook restricts violent video clips and photos 13 January 2015 Oswestry mum's breastfeeding photo deleted by Facebook 28 October 2014 Instagram defends nudity rules after 'nipple ban' protest 3 June 2014 Related Internet links Facebook Fosi The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.