https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-20663447
Apple Maps 'is life-threatening' to motorists lost in Australia heat - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Apple Maps 'is life-threatening' to motorists lost in Australia heat 10 December 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-20663447 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption In this picture posted by Mildura police, the purple pin shows the actual location of the town Inaccuracies in Apple Maps could be "life-threatening" to motorists in Australia's searing heat, police have warned. Officers in Mildura, Victoria, say they have had to assist drivers stranded after following the software's directions. Some of the drivers had been without food or water for 24 hours. Apple's software was heavily criticised by users when it was released in September. Last week, chief executive Tim Cook admitted Apple had "screwed up" and was working to improve the program. 'No water supply' In a press release, Victoria police's acting senior sergeant Sharon Darcy made her force's concerns clear. "Tests on the mapping system by police confirm the mapping systems lists Mildura in the middle of the Murray Sunset National Park, approximately 70km [45 miles] away from the actual location of Mildura," she said. "Police are extremely concerned as there is no water supply within the park and temperatures can reach as high as 46[C], making this a potentially life-threatening issue." The force advised travellers to use an alternative mapping service until the issues had been fixed. In September, Apple dropped Google Maps from its iOS software in favour of its own mapping program. However, users were quick to complain it contained many inaccuracies, poor imagery and unreliable directions. Image caption Users have complained about the quality of satellite images in Apple's software The company defended the software at first, telling users it was "confident about our map quality". However, Apple soon backtracked, posting an apology notice on its website. "We are extremely sorry for the frustration this has caused our customers and we are doing everything we can to make Maps better," said Mr Cook. A specially created section on the App Store highlighted alternative mapping software. However, an app for Google Maps has yet to be made available - although some reports suggest one is in its testing phase. The fall-out from Apple Maps saw high-profile senior executives leave the company. GPS vulnerability Apple's mapping woes come as researchers at Carnegie Mellon University warned about newly discovered vulnerabilities in the world's Global Positioning System (GPS). The research paper suggested that just $2,500 (£1,500) of equipment could be used to knock out 30% of systems supporting "safety and life-critical applications". The researchers proposed "defences such as hardening GPS software against RF [radio frequency] and network attacks, as well as an attack detection system". They added: "Until GPS is secured, life and safety-critical applications that depend upon it are likely vulnerable to attack." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Apple's Tim Cook says Macs will be made in US 6 December 2012 Nokia Maps digitises streets to battle Google's threat 5 December 2012 Apple apologises for Maps error 28 September 2012 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.