https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-32047642
BT returns to mobile phone market - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology BT returns to mobile phone market 25 March 2015 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-32047642 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Getty Images Image caption BT's announcement comes a decade after it pulled out of the UK's mobile phone market BT is re-entering the UK's consumer mobile phone market, with a range of 4G subscriptions. Its cheapest offer is aggressively priced at a discounted rate of £5 a month for existing BT broadband customers. The service will use spectrum provided via a partnership with EE - a network BT is attempting to buy outright - and spectrum that BT owns itself. One analyst said bundled access to football games would help the company. BT is offering customers who sign up to its BT Mobile contracts the ability to watch Premier League football matches that it owns the rights to via an app, even if they are not broadband customers. "An entry tariff of £5 a month will grab headlines, but inclusive access to BT Sport and five million wi-fi hotspots offers important differentiation in a cut-throat field," commented Paolo Pescatore, from the telecoms consultancy CCS Insight. "We expect initial low-key marketing to heat up as BT makes a broader assault on the bundled telecom market over the summer." BT's basic deal - which includes 200 minutes of calls and 500MB of 4G data - will cost £10 a month to customers who do not have a BT broadband subscription. BT is the UK's biggest broadband provider with 7.6 million consumers signed up to the service, according to its latest figures. The mobile deals it has announced so far are all Sim-card-only, meaning that calls, data and texts are included but not a handset. BT has said it will provide more details of its strategy after its proposed £12.5bn takeover of EE - currently co-owned by Orange and Deutsche Telekom - is complete. Regulators have still to sign off on the acquisition, which is opposed by some of BT's rivals. BT was one of the pioneers of the UK's mobile phone sector with its Cellnet service in the 1980s, but later spun off the business. The mobile phone firm, which was rebranded as O2, was later acquired by Spain's Telefonica. Quad-play bundles Image copyright Reuters Image caption Sky is planning to offer its customers a mobile phone service from 2016 The UK's second biggest broadband provider, Sky, has also announced plans to offer a mobile phone service, allowing it to offer its own rival "quad-play" bundle - including internet, landline phone, TV and mobile - but has not scheduled the launch until 2016. Virgin Media and TalkTalk - the country's third and fourth biggest broadband firms, do offer packages including all four services. However, their mobile phone services are both limited to 3G data at this stage, meaning they are likely to provide slower mobile internet speeds than BT's 4G service. A spokesman for TalkTalk said it would begin offering 4G "later this year" through a deal with O2. Basic Sim-only 4G deals compared Cost per month 4G data allowance Included call time BT Mobile £5* 500MB 200mins Vodafone £14 500MB 900mins O2 £13 500MB 500mins EE £9.99 250MB 250mins Three £8 500MB 200mins Tesco Mobile £10 500MB 1,000mins GiffGaff £12 1,000MB 500mins At launch, BT Mobile will be totally dependant on EE's network. However, BT intends to make use of 2.6 GHz radio frequencies, which it bought as part of 2013's 4G auction, to let its customers boost reception inside buildings via special base stations called femtocells within the next 18 months. "BT is a credible player in the telecoms market and will be in a far stronger position next year with the inclusion of EE, subject to regulatory approval," said Mr Pescatore. "Rivals should be threatened by this move and Sky in particular will need to react given how punchy BT's SIM only deals are. "With this in mind Sky may need to launch mobile a lot sooner." Related Topics BT Group Mobile phones Companies Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Telefonica finalises £10bn sale of O2 mobile phone firm 24 March 2015 Customers of smaller broadband providers are happier - Which? 16 March 2015 BT to buy mobile firm EE for £12.5bn 5 February 2015 Sky to launch UK mobile phone service 29 January 2015 Related Internet links BT CCS Insight The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.