https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-27340359
What does Apple want from Dr Dre? - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology What does Apple want from Dr Dre? Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 9 May 2014 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-27340359 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Getty Images My first reaction to the news that Apple may be about to make its biggest ever purchase by scooping up Dr Dre's Beats headphones business was… why? For the previously sensible Tim Cook to go on a spree, splashing out billions on a fashion brand like a hiphop artist ordering up Cristal champagne in a club, seems out of character. Look back at the list of Apple's recent acquisitions and they could not be more different from Beats. They are mostly small technology businesses, acquired both for the brains of their staff and for the capabilities they might bring to new Apple products. And with the exception of Siri, the software firm bought to power Apple's voice-activated digital assistant, you never hear the names of its purchases after they disappear into the Cupertino campus. Look across the range of Apple products and everything is branded with that familiar logo. But Beats is surely most valuable as a brand - and many dedicated audiophiles will tell you that behind that "b" logo, the quality of its headphones leaves much to be desired. So it would be bizarre to spend $3bn only to plaster an Apple symbol over the headphones. But it probably isn't the headphones or the brand that are the main attraction to Apple - it is the need to bolster its music offering. Beats Music, launched in the US earlier this year, is a streaming service which looks as though it might pose the first serious threat to Spotify. Image copyright Getty Images For a decade Apple's iPod and iTunes made it the biggest player in digital music - but that was in the download era. Now all the growth in music industry revenue is coming from streaming services - and despite the recent launch of iTunes Radio, the company looks behind the pace on this. The analyst-turned-venture capitalist Benedict Evans tweeted an interesting chart this morning of Google searches for iTunes, Beats and Spotify in the US. iTunes is way ahead but the trend has turned lower, with Spotify and Beats both heading higher. So if this deal goes through, expect a much more comprehensive subscription music streaming service from Apple, although the music labels may want to revise the terms of their licensing deal with Beats. That could pose a threat to Spotify, which may regret not raising funds via a share sale earlier - or might now find itself a target for acquisition. Apple - as ever - is saying absolutely nothing, but one man isn't keeping quiet. In a video posted on Facebook, Dre celebrates loudly and swearily about becoming a member of "the billionaire's boy club". "The Forbes List just changed… they need to update the Forbes list." Whether that message was approved by the Apple PR team is not clear, but if hip hop's first billionaire does join Silicon Valley's most secretive business, the clash of cultures is going to provide endless entertainment. View comments Related Topics Apple Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.