https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17510651
Google ordered to change autocomplete function in Japan - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Google ordered to change autocomplete function in Japan 26 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17510651 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Google has been forced to tinker with its autocomplete function in the past Google has been ordered to disable part of its autocomplete function in Japan after complaints it violates privacy. An unidentified man took the search giant to court over concerns that typing in his name linked him with crimes he was not involved with. Lawyer Hiroyuki Tomita said the effect on the man's reputation has meant he has found it hard to find work. Google has so far not carried out the court's request - but said it was "reviewing the order". "A Japanese court issued a provisional order requesting Google to delete specific terms from autocomplete," the company said in a statement on Monday. "The judge did not require Google to completely suspend the autocomplete function." Autocomplete is a function on many of Google's search service which uses a mixture of algorithms and stored user data to predict what a person is searching for. For example, a search for BBC will automatically suggest "news", "iPlayer" and "weather". 'Irretrievable damage' Mr Tomita said a search for his client's name would wrongly associate him with crimes committed by a man with the same name. It could lead to irretrievable damage such as a loss of job Hiroyuki Tomita, Lawyer He argued that the autocomplete feature as a whole was problematic as it directed users to potentially false or misleading information. "It could lead to irretrievable damage such as a loss of job or bankruptcy just by showing search results that constitute defamation or a violation of the privacy of an individual person or small and medium-sized companies," Mr Tomita told Japanese news agency Kyodo. Google defended the system, arguing that as results were generated mechanically - rather than by an individual - it was not an invasion of privacy. "These searches are produced by a number of factors including the popularity of search terms," the company said. "Google does not determine these terms manually - all of the queries shown in autocomplete have been typed previously by other Google users." It is not the first time the feature has come under scrutiny. In December 2010, Google tweaked autocomplete so that terms relating to piracy did not automatically appear. However, the company attracted further criticism after it refused to remove sites hosting illegal copyright material from its search results. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Twitter unhappy about Google's social search changes 8 March 2012 Google changes 'to tackle piracy' Related Internet links Google The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.