https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16356066
Google and Facebook top 2011's most visited sites in US - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Google and Facebook top 2011's most visited sites in US 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16356066 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Yahoo could face problems if more young people turn away from web-based email Google was the most popular website with US users in 2011 but Facebook was not far behind, according to market researchers. Nielsen suggests more than 153 million visitors clicked onto Google branded pages each month, as Facebook attracted close to 138 million visitors. Yahoo came third with about 130 million visitors each month. But analysts warned Yahoo's tally might be at risk if young people continued to turn away from web-based email. The study is based on data collected between January and October and included visits from home and work computers. It involved a sample from a global panel of 200,000 people. Social networks Although Google trumped Facebook as the most popular web brand, the search giant's Google+ network came far behind Mark Zuckerberg's site in Nielsen's ranking of the most popular social networks and blogs. Google+ came eighth in the list with 8.02m unique monthly visitors. That also put it behind Google's weblog publishing tool Blogger, as well as Twitter, Wordspace, Myspace, Linkedin and Tumblr. Google's YouTube was identified as the most popular destination for online videos, attracting more than three times the number of monthly visitors as the music video service Vevo. While Yahoo maintained its position as one of the top three web brands, an earlier study cast doubt over its ability to retain the position over coming years. Web-based email Research by Comscore suggests US-based 12- to 17-year-olds spent 30% less time using web-based email between November 2010 and the same month this year. Usage among those aged 18 to 24 fell by 21%, and was down by 1% in the 25 to 34 age bracket. Usage was up among older age groups. Internet analysts said this was a worrying trend. "Yahoo's basic problem is that people are no longer looking for an all-you-can-eat service and instead want best-in-breed," said Ian Maude from Enders Analysis. "For social networks that is Facebook, for search it's Google. "Email is a front door to Yahoo and if people are no longer using their service it will affect them more broadly. If Comscore's data is an early indicator of a growing trend they have a major problem." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Alibaba hires US lobbying firm 29 December 2011 YouTube Slam begins video clip battles for users' votes 8 March 2012 Google gives Mozilla lifeline as it renews Firefox deal 8 March 2012 Related Internet links Nielsen Comscore Enders Analysis Google Facebook Yahoo Microsoft Linkedin Myspace Tumblr Twitter Vevo The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.