https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17812903
Pinterest clones flooding Chinese web space - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Pinterest clones flooding Chinese web space By Katia Moskvitch Technology reporter, BBC News 23 April 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17812903 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Some clones, unlike Pinterest, allow users to buy "pinned" items Pinterest clones have flooded China's web world - only months after the social image-sharing website reached massive popularity. The site has recently surpassed 10 million users, in record time . Copying it seems to be the latest cloning trend in China - a country known for copying the designs of everything from shoes and cars to iPads and tech start-ups. Tech blogs say there are about 20 Chinese clones of Pinterest already. Some copycats modify the original site's design only slightly, while others go a step further. Chinese entrepreneurs seem much more prepared to link some of these networks to commerce Hamid Sirhan, FreshNetworks Several have taken the basic idea of "pinning" and sharing theme-based photos a bit further, for example changing the interface to allow online shopping. In the long run, cloning websites could provide huge benefits to the Chinese economy, says Hamid Sirhan, a strategist at social media agency FreshNetworks in London. Cloning trend In China, locals joke that they have much more choice of products than in the Western world - and in a way, they do. Local markets offer anything and everything that looks like the original version, but often with subtle differences. "Buying a copy is much cheaper, and although clones are all based on existing technologies and designs, often companies customise their product for the Chinese market," says Lu Yang, a Chinese BBC World Service journalist. "For example, my grandmother has a mobile phone that looks just like one of the Nokia models - but it has much bigger buttons with huge digits so is easier for old people to use, and also has a SOS button for emergency calls." And the online world is no stranger to cloning. For instance, in 2011 copycats of a social network Tumblr were popping up here and there, with one of the most popular clones being Diandian. Image caption Pinterest is one of the fastest-growing social networks Even a major Chinese Facebook clone, Renren, and China's microblogging site Sina Weibo, dubbed a hybrid of Facebook and Twitter, launched their own Tumblr-type blogs - Renren Stations and Qing. But in the second half of 2011, Pinterest clones started to emerge. 'Pin' and shop One of the most recent ones is Alibaba Group's social shopping platform Fa Xian. It was launched only four weeks ago in a test mode, but already has some 60,000 viewers a day. Just like Pinterest, it lets users "pin" images of items on virtual pinboards, where others can then post comments. But with a different twist, Fa Xian lets people shop, too - anything pinned on the platform is available for purchase through two Alibaba-operated websites, Taobao Mall and Taobao Marketplace. Besides Fa Xian, two other Pinterest clones have proved a huge success in China - Mogujie.com and Meilishuo.com. But instead of letting users "pin" images from anywhere on the web, they only offer content from China's biggest e-commerce site, Taobao.com. I think that copying foreign technology is a stepping stone for the modern Chinese Lu Yang, BBC World Service On Mogujie, visitors can buy items as well. Hamid Sirhan at FreshNetworks notes that "while Pinterest has faced criticism for surreptitiously inserting paid-for content, Chinese entrepreneurs seem much more prepared to link some of these networks to commerce." "I am looking to these Chinese clones to provide the next key paradigms in social commerce." 'Suppressing creativity' Just like sharing "pinned" Pinterest images on Facebook and Twitter, Chinese clones allow you to share on Sina Weibo and Tencent Weibo, another Twitter copycat. There are other Pinterest clones that, just like the original website, do not allow users to shop and open the entire web space for "pinning" images. They include Qihu 360's, Woxihuan.com, Huaban.com and iCaitu.com. But while clones of anything and everything in both the online and physical world continue to emerge in China, Ms Yang thinks that it would be nice if one day China would see its copycatting activities from a slightly different perspective. "We are great at cloning, everyone knows that - and I think that copying foreign technology is a stepping stone for the modern Chinese," she says. "It wouldn't be fair to say that we are incapable of creativity; perhaps we are a little behind in modern technology, yet we're catching up fast. "I'm sure we will see original stuff coming out of China soon." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Pinterest: Just what exactly is on it? 2 March 2012 Pinterest - hot new network or another Quora? 20 February 2012 Related Internet links Pinterest Home mogujie.com Alibaba.com meilishuo.com/ The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.