https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-11020795
Facebook launches Places location based service - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Facebook launches Places location based service By Maggie Shiels Technology reporter, BBC News, Silicon Valley 19 August 2010 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-11020795 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption By 'checking in' to a location, you can let friends know where you are Social networking behemoth Facebook has added a feature that allows members to share where they are while on the move. Places, as it is known, marks the company's first foray into the "location-based services" space, which has become popular with users who want to share where they shop, eat or play. Sites such as Foursquare and Gowalla already offer similar features. Places will initially only be available in the US through Facebook's iPhone app or by logging onto its smartphone site. The company plans to extend the feature to all its 500 million members as soon as it can. "This is meaningful because you can stay connected with your friends around you," said company founder Mark Zuckerberg. Third place The product, which uses the GPS on smartphones, works by getting users to tap a "check-in" button to see a list of places near where they are. From there they can choose the place that matches their location and "create a story" in their friends' News Feeds on the site. Users can also let people know who they are with by "tagging" any Facebook friends, but only as long as they check-in to the location as well. The company's vice president of product Chris Cox said that while home and work are two of the most important places in people's lives, Places tries to tap into the third most important. "This third place is the one we end up talking about a lot. I went to a movie, I saw a band, I went to a bar. So much of the interesting stuff in our lives happens in this small amount of time and we want to make that come alive," Mr Cox told BBC News. "The worst portrait of Facebook is people at home just looking at pictures of other people having fun. This is exactly the opposite. This is a very participatory, real-world kind of thing." Mobile explosion Location based services have been growing in popularity among users with smartphones. One of the most talked about is Foursquare, which now has more than three million users. It plays up the game aspect of checking in with friends by awarding points and virtual badges. I don't think it represents Facebook stealing our thunder Holger Leudorf, Foursquare Far from being viewed as a threat to its future, Foursquare's vice president of mobile and partnerships Holger Leudorf said he sees Facebook's entry into this arena as an opportunity. "This will certainly put the spotlight on the check-in industry even more but I don't think it represents Facebook stealing our thunder," he said. "You see elements here that you see on Foursquare but this is more about validating that we are onto something and that this will be a much, much bigger thing going forward." Other companies building on top of the Facebook platform alongside Foursquare include Gowalla, Booyah, Loopt and the business review site Yelp. While the location-based sector is still nascent it is predicted to become a billion dollar market when it comes to targeting advertising or promotions at people based on their proximity to a business. Image caption Places is the culmination of many months work said Mark Zuckerberg Media research firm Borrell Associates has estimated that such services could generate as much as $4.1 billion (£2.6 billion) in annual ad sales by 2015. This is in part because of the explosion of people using Facebook and other services on their mobile phones. Facebook estimates that more than 150 million of its members access the site via a mobile. "We have gone from a world where online we know who I am, what I am doing and when to where I am doing it," said Susan Etlinger, analyst with the Altimeter Group. "This changes the game dramatically. And knowing what my friends think of a bar or a restaurant has a much bigger value to me than 40 to 100 strangers because my friend's experiences matter more to me. "And If I am a business, it gives me a channel to engage with my customers at a point they are most likely to purchase," Ms Etlinger told the BBC. Privacy concerns Clearly stung by previous criticism over the way the company has handled users' privacy in the past, Facebook has taken a different tack this time. The networking site has given users controls over what and how much information they share on the service. Facebook said Places is about "broadcasting to your friends, not the whole world". Users can remove themselves if someone tags them. They can also disable the feature if they are not interested. "They have been pretty thoughtful about the privacy stuff here, but they had to be given the backlash in the recent past," said analyst Greg Sterling of Sterling Market Intelligence. "They have ensured that the default setting is about the individual and not the world and that is the biggest shift from a privacy standpoint." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Facebook reveals 'simplified' privacy changes 26 May 2010 Facebook data harvester speaks out 29 July 2010 The ups and downs of social networks 22 July 2010 Facebook downplays crisis meeting 14 May 2010 Facebook's bid to rule the web 22 April 2010 Facebook hits 500m user milestone 21 July 2010 The unintended consequences of Facebook 21 July 2010 'Rob me' site reveals empty homes 18 February 2010 Related Internet links Facebook blog FourSquare Yelp Altimeter Group Sterling Market Intelligence Gowalla Booyah Loopt The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.