https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16083828
Alec Baldwin leaves Twitter after American Airlines row - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Alec Baldwin leaves Twitter after American Airlines row 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16083828 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Mr Baldwin's final tweet was a link to a YouTube video of a classical concert The Twitter account of the Hollywood and TV actor, Alec Baldwin, has been deactivated. Mr Baldwin had been a prolific tweeter and made headlines this week after writing that he had been kicked off an American Airlines plane for playing a game on his mobile phone. The airlineresponded on Facebookthat a passenger had been removed after declining "to turn off his cell phone". Mr Baldwin later posted an apology to passengers onthe Huffington Post. "It was never my intention to inconvenience anyone with my 'issue' with a certain flight attendant," Mr Baldwin wrote. Lessons However, his apology did not extend to the airline itself. Mr Baldwin claimed he had been "singled out" by an airline employee for using his phone to complete messages after the late-running plane had closed its doors but was still waiting for take-off. "The lesson I've learned is to keep my phone off when the 1950's gym teacher is on duty," he added. American Airlines' statement said that an unnamed passenger had taken his mobile phone to the lavatory and had slammed the door when asked to turn it off. It said the man had been "extremely rude to the crew, calling them inappropriate names and using offensive language". #massunfollow The 30 Rock star later tweeted: "Let's play a game called Mass Unfollowing. I want to crash this acct and start again. But, tonight at 10 PM, NY time, unfollow me." Later that evening he tweeted: "I leave you with this.... The great Bernard Haitnk and the Concertgebouw, performing the Mahler 9th, fourth movement." Mr Baldwin then linked to a YouTube video of the concert, and appears to have closed his account. The tweets can still be seen in aGoogle cache, however visitors to his account are now simply told that it has been "deactivated". Members of the social network have given a mixed reaction to the news. Some members described him as a "bully" and commented "good riddance". However, others wrote "Alec Baldwin is my hero!" and "I thought he was good value". Marketing experts say the saga highlights the growing importance of social media. "What's interesting about this is not that he was forced to leave a flight - he's not the first celebrity that's happened to," said Simon Myers, from the Figtree consultancy. "But his withdrawal from Twitter is the bigger story. I think that shows just how important Twitter has become in the whole celebrity ecosystem." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Gaming Baldwin 'kicked off plane' 8 December 2011 Kremlin red faces after retweet 7 December 2011 Gervais and Pilkington talk social media 7 December 2011 Related Internet links Twitter Google The Huffington Post Facebook American Airlines Figtree Network The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.