https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-24541073
Supercell: Europe’s supercharged games success - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Supercell: Europe’s supercharged games success Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 15 October 2013 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-24541073 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Playing Clash of Clans It is a Finnish company started in 2010, whose first products only emerged in 2011. You've probably never heard of Supercell, but on Tuesday it was valued at $3bn, making it the fastest growing technology firm to come out of Europe in, well, just about ever. Supercell is a games business with just two titles, Clash of Clans and Hay Day, which until last week could only be played on Apple's iPhone and iPad. But they have grabbed a huge share of the mobile gaming market, leading the world in terms of revenue, ahead of giants like EA which has 829 titles to Supercell's two. On Tuesday Japan's Softbank paid $1.5bn to acquire a 51% stake in Supercell. The telecoms firm is doing the deal in conjunction with its own gaming subsidiary GungHo, another major player in the new world of mobile games. This might look like another of those dotcom deals, where a wealthy corporate giant pays over the odds for a business with big user numbers but no concrete business plan. But Supercell is making money hand over fist - revenues grew from $100m in 2012 to $179m in the first quarter of this year and are on course to hit $1bn for the whole year. Key to its success has been its ability to crack the Asian market, something many other games developers have tried and failed to do. It has already been working with GungHo and has now brought its games to Android, essential for any firm competing in China. It's a great boost for the image of the European games industry It all looks like a great success for Finland, also home of the Angry Birds firm Rovio, and for the wider European technology scene. Supercell was backed by London-based venture capital firms including Index Ventures and Atomico. They bought in at a valuation of $770m back in February, so have made their investment back four times over in the space of six months - though existing investors will retain half of their stakes in the business. That means more money will now be available to invest in other start-ups, and even if Supercell is now controlled from Japan, Tuesday's news will be a great boost for the image of the European games industry. The UK firm behind the phenomenally successful Candy Crush Saga, King.com, is currently working on its stock market debut, while the Moshi Monsters business Mind Candy is also rumoured to be thinking of an IPO. Both may end up on New York's Nasdaq over the next year. What is slightly disappointing is that these companies seem to be looking outside Europe - to Asia or the US - when they are seeking the funding they need to progress to the next stage of their development. But European games developers are showing that they have mastered what consumers want in the mobile world and using their skills to build big businesses in a hurry. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.