https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26848980
Nest and the battle to control your heating - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Nest and the battle to control your heating Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 2 April 2014 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26848980 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Nest launched in the US in 2011 Competition to be the company that brings smart home technology to Britain and cuts energy bills is hotting up. Nest, the firm whose smart thermostat has been a big hit in the United States, is launching in the UK. The device, from a team which cut its design teeth at Apple, connects wirelessly to your boiler and can be controlled remotely via a smartphone app. It learns your daily routine and adjusts the temperature accordingly. But, with the weather warming up and at least one energy firm promising to freeze bills, April might not seem the best month to be promising to disrupt the market with new technology. What's more, this relatively new market is already quite crowded. Hive Active Heating, owned by British Gas, launched last September and is apparently already in 50,000 homes. Honeywell, whose brand is already familiar in many British homes, has its multi-room system on the market. And a firm called Tado, which is the market leader in this technology in Germany, is now making a big push into the UK. But Nest has one key advantage - it is now owned by a firm with more money and power than anyone else in the market. In January Google bought Nest for $3.2bn (£1.9bn) and made bold pronouncements about its ambitions to be a player in the connected home. The UK launch is the first major event at Nest since the Google takeover, so the new owners will be watching carefully to see how consumers react. Two questions hang in the air - is there really much of an appetite for smart heating control systems, and if so, do people want to buy one from a search giant whose business model depends on collecting personal data? It's not cheap to make your home's heating system smart - £249 including installation. (Mind you, if the engineers spend 90 minutes installing the system, as advertised, the margins for Nest must look pretty slim). That compares with £199 for Hive, the rival product from British Gas, which has an existing network of 12,000 engineers to call upon. But like its rivals, Nest is claiming that consumers make big savings once they have made the initial investment in a learning thermostat. The company says its US customers "experience savings of approximately 20% on average off their heating and cooling bill and we're looking forward to helping customers in the UK save as well". Now the UK is a different market - nobody here spends much on cooling - so customers will need some hard evidence of savings before they can work out how long it takes a Nest owner to recoup that initial £249. But beyond the hard sell of promised savings, Nest and its new owner have to convince British consumers that they need a smart device controlling their heating and monitoring their presence at home and that they are happy for it to be owned by Google. To help spread its message in the British market Nest has formed a marketing partnership with Npower, although given the current reputation of the big six energy firms that may be a mixed blessing. Its German rival Tado is already stressing its own independence. "We think people will worry about Big Brother knowing everything," a spokesman for the firm told me. But in the end it's probably not privacy concerns or even lower bills that will be decisive in determining whether Nest is a success in the UK. It is whether we want to have another gadget in our homes, whether family members want to wrestle over who uses yet another remote control, in short whether there is a large market beyond the dedicated technophiles for the whole idea of a smart, connected home. Google has bet $3.2bn that controlling your home via devices which talk to your smartphone is the next big thing. Now we will find out just how smart an investment that was. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.