https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17745935
Oakley researches augmented reality glasses for athletes - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Oakley researches augmented reality glasses for athletes 17 April 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17745935 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Oakley's Thump Pro range already include a built-in digital music player Augmented reality glasses targeted at athletes and other sportsmen and women are being developed by Oakley. The business's chief executive told Bloomberg that the firm had been working on the project for 15 years and had filed about 600 related patents. Colin Baden said that the aim was to create a self-contained unit that could also communicate with smartphones. The announcement comes a fortnight after Google released a concept video of its own heads-up display project. The search giant's co-founder, Sergey Brin, was later spotted sporting a prototype at a charity event in San Francisco, although he declined to let others try it out. Oakley has previously marketed a range of glasses with built-in MP3 music players It has also partnered with Motorola Mobility to offer glasses equipped with Bluetooth devices allowing the user to make hands-free telephone calls via a linked mobile phone. Google is in the process of taking over the smartphone-maker. Mr Baden signalled that the release of augmented reality glasses might still be some way off. "As an organisation, we've been chasing this beast since 1997," he said. "The technology barrier success is significant." Army eyewear He added that initial units were likely to prove expensive, and that the company - which is a division of Italy's Luxottica Group - might also develop a product for the US military. Image caption Google's Sergey Brin wore a prototype of his firm's augmented glasses at a fund-raising event That would potentially put it in competition with another firm, Innovega. The BBC revealed last week that the Pentagon had signed an order for prototype double-vision contact lenses designed to work with a special set of glasses. The iOptik set-up is designed to allow the user to focus on information projected onto the HUD's lenses as well as more distant objects at the same time. It is claimed that the set-up would be less bulky than existing alternatives, giving equipped troops an advantage on the battlefield. A spokeswoman for Oakley was unable to provide more detail about the company's efforts. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Google unveils Project Glass augmented reality eyewear 4 April 2012 What's the point of augmented reality? 1 June 2011 Dual-focus contact lens prototypes ordered by Pentagon 13 April 2012 Related Internet links Oakley Google Project Glass Innovega Motorola Mobility Bloomberg The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.