https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16631710
Kodak sues Samsung over image patents in latest lawsuit - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Kodak sues Samsung over image patents in latest lawsuit 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16631710 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption The ability of Samsung's cameras to upload pictures to remote servers may infringe Kodak's patents Eastman Kodak is suing Samsung over claims its patents have been infringed. The US camera and printer maker said the complaint relates tofive of its digital imaging technologies. It is the latest in a series of patent lawsuits filed by the firm since the start of the year. Kodak said on Wednesday that it was seeking bankruptcy protection. That followed an announcement in July that it was looking to sell or license about 1,100 digital imaging patents. The latest alleged infringements include technology to make an electronic camera capable of "automatically transmitting images... to a service provider using a network configuration file," and having a "communications interface for selectively transmitting images over a cellular phone network and a wireless LAN network to a destination". Samsung launched its AllShare Play cloud storage service, which allows its cameras to upload pictures to remote servers after they are taken, earlier in the month. The South Korean firm could not be reached for comment. Samsung settled a previous dispute in 2010 after its Blackjack II camera was accused of infringing Kodak patents. It agreed to a cross-licensing deal which involved it paying royalties to its rival. Further financial details were not disclosed. Kodak has also filed lawsuitsagainst Apple and HTCinvolving the same five patents. In additionit is suing Fujifilmover a separate, but overlapping, set of claimed infringements. Kodak alleged that the Japanese company had made use of its technologies including the "quick review of last captured image" and "user selectable image record size". Lawsuits mount Kodak's actions add to an upswing in legal activity between the tech firms after December's holidays. Over the past fortnight: The Spanish tablet maker NT-K filed claims against Apple accusing the US firm of "extortion"; this followed NT-K's successful defence of claims that it had infringed an Apple design LG and Microsoft agreed a patent licensing deal that allows LG to use technologies involved in Google's Android system that Microsoft claims to own Oracle offered to drop patent infringement claims against Google if US courts agreed to speed up its copyright claim against the search firm Apple brought two new design lawsuits against Samsung in Germany relating to tablet computers and smartphones Microsoft and Motorola Mobility asked the International Trade Commission to review its preliminary ruling that Motorola's Android devices infringed four Microsoft patents One patent expert linked the lawsuits to economic problems. "In a time of recession people are looking for more marketshare, and one way of dealing with your competition is to use your patent portfolio to muscle them out of the market," said Vicki Salmon, a member of the UK's Chartered Institute of Patent Attorneys who does not represent any of the mentioned companies. "In times of plenty there is enough to go round and you do not need to be worried so much about who is infringing on your patch." However another lawyer, who asked not to be named because his firm represents several of the firms involved, disputed this analysis. He said launching patent and design right litigation was increasingly seen as "business as usual" and was used to secure first mover advantage - a means to delay or prevent rivals bringing competing products to market. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Kodak seeks bankruptcy protection 19 January 2012 Google adds IBM patents as it looks to future 8 March 2012 ITC judge: Motorola Mobility infringed Microsoft patent 8 March 2012 Related Internet links Samsung Eastman Kodak Apple HTC Fujifilm NT-K LG Oracle Microsoft Android Google Motorola Mobility HTC Chartered Institute of Patent Attorneys The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.