https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26245544
The internet through a light bulb - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology The internet through a light bulb Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 19 February 2014 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26245544 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionProfessor Harald Haas demonstrates his LiFi technology to Rory Cellan-Jones Imagine an office where every computer, mobile phone and tablet is connected to the internet not through an ethernet connection or via wi-fi but just through the overhead lights. That is the vision that Professor Harald Haas lays out for me when he visits my office to demonstrate his LiFi technology. Professor Haas has been working on this at Edinburgh University for some years, and is now running a company called Pure LiFi to try and commercialise the technology. The university itself has invested in a LiFi R&D Centre to try to kick-start an industry which might turn Edinburgh into a world centre for this technology. Next week Professor Haas and a team which includes some of his former doctoral students will take their equipment to Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. So the demonstration in our office feels like quite a big deal - will it work, and will it impress? They set up two laptops on a table, one with a conventional connection to the internet, linked to a piece of kit which is in turn connected to a conventional light fitting. The other computer has a bulky unit attached to it, effectively a light receiver. It's by making the light flicker very rapidly that data is conveyed from one computer to the other. It's a bit like Morse code," explains the professor, "but in a very sophisticated way, achieving very high data rates". Image copyright University of Edinburgh And lo and behold, it works, with the second laptop streaming a video which buffers and halts once I block off the light completely. Impressive then, but I have several questions about the practicality of getting LiFi adopted in the real world, The clunky receiver unit looks a long way from being a finished product. The team admits there is much to do in this area, but with enough investment they believe they can miniaturise this process so that it will be a 1-sq-cm device that can be fitted into any smartphone. We have deployed so many wireless access points that they interfere with each other and slow down the actual data rates Professor Harald Haas Even then, there is a more important question - why when wi-fi works so well, do we need an alternative means of connecting to the internet? Wi-fi is indeed a great success, says Professor Haas, so much so that the radio spectrum is getting overcrowded: "We have deployed so many wireless access points that they interfere with each other and slow down the actual data rates. We need other pipes, fatter pipes - and light is just such a big pipe for wireless connectivity." He also maintains that there are security benefits - light-generated internet connections do not travel through walls, so can not be intercepted like a wi-fi signal. The professor looks forward to a future where the much-hyped "internet of things" becomes a reality, where "there's wireless connectivity everywhere, your fridge talks to your toaster - this provides the means to achieve that". It is a beguiling vision - but a lot more work needs to be done before we all start flicking a light switch to get connected. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.