https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18143812
Google must answer EU antitrust concerns over search - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Google must answer EU antitrust concerns over search 21 May 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18143812 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Complaints have been made that Google favours its own products when serving up search results Google has "a matter of weeks" to allay concerns it is abusing its dominant position in the search engine market, the European Commission has said. An investigation by Europe's antitrust head Joaquin Almunia looked at whether Google gave preferential treatment to its own services in its search results. Mr Almunia said the company must now "offer remedies" swiftly. A Google spokesman said the company disagreed with the conclusions, but would work to resolve the matter. "We're happy to discuss any concerns they might have," Google spokesman Al Verney said. "Competition on the web has increased dramatically in the last two years since the commission started looking at this and the competitive pressures Google faces are tremendous." Formal proceedings The commission had been investigating Google since November 2010 following complaints from several rivals. In a statement , Mr Almunia said Google had the chance to outline steps to address the claims, rather than face formal action. "Should this process fail to deliver a satisfactory set of remedies, the ongoing formal proceedings will of course continue," he said. The investigation outlined four areas where Google's practices "may be considered as abuses of dominance", Mr Almunia said. They are: The manner in which Google displays "its own vertical search services differently" from other, competing products. How Google "copies content" from other websites - such as restaurant reviews - to include within their own services. The "exclusivity" Google has to sell advertising around search terms people use. Restrictions surrounding portability of advertising content which prevents "seamless transfer" to other non-Google platforms. Mr Almunia said he had outlined these concerns in a letter to Google's executive chairman Eric Schmidt. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Google makes search 'more human' with Knowledge Graph 16 May 2012 Google ordered to change autocomplete function in Japan 26 March 2012 Google accused of criminal intent 9 June 2010 Related Internet links Google European Commission The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.