https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16344354
YouTube Slam begins video clip battles for users' votes - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology YouTube Slam begins video clip battles for users' votes 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16344354 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Google says YouTube Slam offers visitors the chance to discover the next internet hit video Viral videos are being pitched against each other in a battle for popularity under YouTube's new Slam service. The Google-owned clip website has announced that it will put a new crop of videos "head-to-head" each week and ask users to vote for their favourite. The firm described the offering as "a video discovery experiment". Experts said the move was designed to keep visitors on YouTube for longer and deepen their ties to the website. YouTube's blog said it wasinitially launching the service with five categories- comedy, cute, music, bizarre and dance. Users' votes will determine where the clips end up on a leader board. Those taking part are promised "points for predicting the crowd favourites", allowing them to see how their predictive power compared to other players at the end of each week. "You could help uncover the next big thing," said the firm's software engineer, Tomas Izo. Music rival Company watchers linked the move to the rise of Vevo - a music video website owned by Universal Music, Sony Music and the Abu Dhabi Media company. The two-year-old service reported it had 57 million users in October. Although many of those viewers watched Vevo's clips through YouTube, increasing numbers streamed the videos direct through the Vevo's own mobile apps and website. "YouTube is in a process of reinvention at the moment - Vevo is basically taking all of the music videos away from them," said Mark Mulligan, digital media analyst at the Music Industry blog. Image caption Comscore said more than 13 million devices ran Vevo's mobile app as of October "YouTube desperately need to create a new relevancy for themselves and that's why with the recent site relaunch - making it look more like a rich interactive TV-like experience - and features like Slam are all about trying to give YouTube a unique place in the online video landscape." The Facebook effect YouTube still ranks as the internet's most popular video website by a wide margin. A study by Comscore suggested that just under88.3 billion clips were viewed on YouTube's pages in October- accounting for roughly two in every five videos viewed online. China's Youku came second, with 4.6 billion views. Vevo followed with 3.7 billion and Facebook with 2.6 billion. Mr Mulligan believes that Slam was born out of YouTube's desire to deepen its ties with part of its audience, building on the kind of activity that many users have become accustomed to through social networks such as Facebook. "For the vast majority of us we go to the site and watch a video or two and come out again. But for 5% to 7% of internet users, YouTube is almost like their main social destination - they have profile pages, they upload videos, they make comments, they like and dislike," he said. "What Slam does is create something in the middle of those two groups. "People have become more used to participating, commenting, liking and sharing. YouTube is trying to capitalise on that. Slam isn't for everyone or just for the 5-7%, it's something in the middle ground for the 25% sort of mark or so." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story YouTube launches schools-friendly video service 8 March 2012 YouTube's website redesign puts the focus on channels 8 March 2012 YouTube boosted by music videos 26 October 2011 Related Internet links YouTube Vevo Facebook Music Industry Blog Youku The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.