https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17076670
Google cookies 'bypassed Safari privacy protection' - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Google cookies 'bypassed Safari privacy protection' 17 February 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17076670 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Google says it has now started removing the advertising cookies in question from Safari browsers Google has been accused of bypassing the privacy settings of users of the Safari web-browser. The Wall Street Journal said Google and other companies had worked around privacy settings designed to restrict cookies. Cookies are small text files stored by browsers which can record information about online activity, and help some online services work. However Google says the story "mischaracterises" what happened. Advertisers can use cookies to track online behaviour, helping them to target the commercials they show to internet users. Some think this use of cookies erodes online privacy. In May, European Union laws are due to come into force which will restrict the use of advertising cookies. But cookies are also essential to some web services like those Google offers. Cookie control The Safari browser is produced by Apple, and is the browser used by the iPhone. By default Safari only allows cookies to be stored by the web page a user is visiting, not from third parties such as advertisers. However, Stanford University researcher Jonathan Mayer found that advertisers were still able to store cookies on the computers of internet users browsing with Safari. It was his discovery that formed the basis of the Wall Street Journal's story. Many Google services use cookies, for example to remember when someone is signed in to a service, but they are also used by the firm to help personalise advertising. It was when Google attempted to find a way to enable some of its services and personalised advertising to work on Safari that, Google says, it inadvertently stored cookies. Side-stepping Safari In a statement, senior vice president Rachel Whetstone said that last year the company had decided to "enable features for signed-in Google users on Safari who had opted to see personalised ads and other content". We are aware that some third parties are circumventing Safari's privacy features and we are working to put a stop to it Apple spokesman She added: "To enable these features, we created a temporary communication link between Safari browsers and Google's servers, so that we could ascertain whether Safari users were also signed into Google, and had opted for this type of personalisation." Ms Whetsone said the company had created new systems to make sure the information it collected was anonymous, but this had led to unintended consequences: "The Safari browser contained functionality that then enabled other Google advertising cookies to be set on the browser. "We didn't anticipate that this would happen, and we have now started removing these advertising cookies from Safari browsers. It's important to stress that, just as on other browsers, these advertising cookies do not collect personal information." The Wall Street Journal reported that Google "disabled the code after being contacted by the paper". Google declined to provide further comment to the BBC. Privacy warning Online privacy advocates were highly critical of Google's actions. The Electronic Frontier Foundation wrote: "It's time for Google to acknowledge that it can do a better job of respecting the privacy of web users." Although much of the criticism has been directed at the search giant, the Wall Street Journal said that in addition to Google, a number of advertising companies had been using the work-around which had been known about for some time. An Apple spokesman said in a statement: "We are aware that some third parties are circumventing Safari's privacy features and we are working to put a stop to it." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Backlash over Google move to change privacy settings 8 March 2012 Google: EU group urges privacy policy change pause 8 March 2012 Web privacy tools to warn of internet tracking cookies 14 November 2011 Related Internet links Google Wall Street Journal EFF The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.