https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16073137
German HTC retailers are threatened with patent lawsuit - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology German HTC retailers are threatened with patent lawsuit 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16073137 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption HTC's chief executive, Peter Chou, shows off its new Rezound smartphone German retailers have been caught up in HTC's battle with patent owner Ipcom. Ipcom has threatened the stores with legal action if they continue to sell the Taiwanese firm's smartphones and other 3G devices. Ipcom said HTC had refused to pay a licence to use its intellectual property, adding that the manufacturer was subject to an injunction by a German court. However, HTC claimed the patent claim in question was invalid. Dispute The case relates to a wireless patent originally developed by the German conglomerate Bosch for use in a car telephone system. After exiting the sector, the firm sold the rights to Ipcom in 2007. Ipcom challenged HTC in the courts over its use of the technology in 2009 and won. HTC appealed, but dropped the case just as it was about to come to court last month. Ipcom said it had given HTC every chance to pay a "fair" fee, but now felt it had no choice but to act to defend its property. "First, Ipcom has written to retailers and wholesalers demanding they stop selling HTC's 3G mobile devices," a statement said. "If they continue, they are effectively making themselves accessory to HTC's patent infringement, and face legal action themselves. "Second, Ipcom has asked the Mannheim District Court to initiate penalty proceedings and contempt of court against HTC." 'Legal tricks' However, HTC claimed that Ipcom was trying to misapply the original court ruling. "[The] case relates to only one, now-obsolete, handset, which is no longer being sold in Germany," the company said. "It is regrettable that Ipcom has demonstrated that it is prepared to go to any lengths, including contacting our customers, to advance what we consider to be disproportionate and unjustifiable claims." Ipcom's co-founder, Bernhard Frohwitter, claimed in turn that HTC was "playing legal tricks", adding that there would have been a clear ruling on whether the original patent ruling applied to all HTC's devices had the firm not dropped its appeal. "These wilful infringers need a lesson," said Mr Frohwitter. Risks Consultant Florian Mueller, who writes a widely-read patents blog, said that German retailers would now have to decide whether to risk becoming embroiled in the dispute. "The agreements retailers conclude with vendors usually contain hold-harmless clauses under which HTC would have to bear the costs and risks of any such legal issues,"he wrote. "While there's strong demand for HTC's products in the German market, the legal departments of some retailers might be uncomfortable with this situation and prefer not to be drawn onto litigation." The research firm IDC estimated that HTC shipped 1.43 million devices to Germany in the first nine months of 2011, representing a 14% share of the country's smartphone market. The Taiwanese firm also faces the prospect of a sales ban in the US. The US International Trade Commission plans to announce its final ruling in a patent dispute between Apple and HTC on 14 December. The decision was postponed from its original date this week. In June the court issued a preliminary judgement that HTC had infringed two of the 10 patents that Apple had complained about. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story US senator calls for answers on phone 'snooping' 8 March 2012 HTC told to halt sales in Germany 29 November 2011 HTC shares plunge on growth cut 24 November 2011 Related Internet links Ipcom HTC Apple Foss patents The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.