https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-11392454
Canada approves Facebook changes - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Canada approves Facebook changes 22 September 2010 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-11392454 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption The Canadian commissioner will continue to monitor the site The Canadian privacy commissioner is happy with changes made by Facebook, following an investigation of the site's policies last year. Jennifer Stoddart said the social network had "vastly improved" the sharing of personal information with third-party developers. She believes that Facebook now provides users "with clear information" about privacy policies. In May the social network made wide-ranging changes to its site. These changes came about partly as a result of pressure from privacy commissioners and campaigners around the world. Long road One of the major concerns of the Canadian commissioner was the way Facebook gave third-party developers "virtually unrestricted access" to Facebook users' personal information. The new model means developers must inform users of the data they need and seek consent to use it. "We're also pleased that Facebook has developed simplified privacy settings and has implemented a tool that allows users to apply a privacy setting to each photo or comment they post," said Ms Stoddart. But it is by no means the end of the matter, she added. "It has been a long road in arriving at this point. These changes are the result of extensive and often intense discussions with Facebook," she said. "Facebook is constantly evolving and we are actively following the changes there. We will take action if we feel there are potential new violations," she added. Michael Richter, Chief Privacy Counsel at Facebook responded to the conclusions: "Making the privacy controls on Facebook comprehensive and easy to understand is an important part of our commitment to giving every person the power to control their own Facebook experience, and will continue to be even though this investigation by the OPC [Office of the Privacy Commissioner] has been concluded." Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook founder, has said publicly that he thinks that life on the web should be social "by default". Ms Stoddard does not share this ambition. "We have cautioned Facebook against expanding the categories of user information made available to everyone on the internet," she said. She has also recommended that Facebook makes its default settings for photo albums more restrictive. Currently it recommends that users make albums available to everyone. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Facebook reveals 'simplified' privacy changes 26 May 2010 Canada to probe Facebook privacy 28 January 2010 Details of 100m Facebook users collected and published 29 July 2010 Related Internet links Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.