https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16383783
Google search home page revamp promotes other services - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Google search home page revamp promotes other services 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16383783 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Google's pull-down menus should help highlight the firm's non-core search services to users Google is rolling out one of its biggest home page changes to date. The revamp strips its front page of the black bar that currently runs horizontally along its top, and replaces it with a grey logo. When clicked or highlighted, it reveals seven alternative services to the site's search page with an option to reveal a further eight. Analysts said the move was designed to promote more of the firm's businesses without cluttering its webpage. The new look,which was first announced last year, is only being offered to a limited number of users at the moment. A spokesman for Google said that the roll-out is designed to improve the user experience. "Constant revision and improvement is part of our overarching philosophy," he said. "If you compare the original Google home page to today's version, you will see that a makeover every so often can certainly be refreshing." Matching Chrome Chris Green, principal technology analyst at Davies Murphy Group, said the move allowed the site to use icons without resembling Yahoo's busier design. "They are trying to deal with how to service all the different Google properties without making the page cluttered, because Google is always very keen to hang onto the plain minimalist front page that they have always had," he said. "The other thing that they are doing with those menus is making the page look like their Chrome netbook operating system. "So whether you are using a Chromebook or the Google website the interface is the same." Image caption Google's front page still resembles its original 1998 design Advertising Another consequence of the move is that it now takes users two movements to enter services such as Images or News, rather than the one click that was previously needed. However, this may play to the site's financial advantage. "For years we've all been extolling the virtues of minimising the number of clicks and it would appear to be a retrograde step," said Mr Green. "But for the sake of clarity it's better having the extra click. What it also means is that, for most people, their first route into the Google universe will be back through the search bar again, which helps the firm expose more people to advertising. "Through search they can put adverts in front of you, while in the news section there isn't advertising." Self promotion Google is facing scrutiny for the way its own services appear in its search results. Last month, two senators called on the Federal Trade Commission to investigate whether Google was exploiting the fact it had a majority of both search via PC and mobile devices. "A key question is whether Google is using its market power to steer users to its own web products or secondary services and discriminating against other websites with which it competes," Senators Herb Kohl and Mike Lee wrote. The Financial Times has also reported that theEuropean Commission was examining claimsthat Google "downgrades some rival websites in its search results, while playing up its own services". Google has denied deliberately disadvantaging rivals. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story BT sues Google over Android 'patent infringements' 8 March 2012 Twitter redesign offer big name brands more prominence 8 March 2012 YouTube's website redesign puts the focus on channels 8 March 2012 Related Internet links Google Davies Murphy Group Yahoo The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.