https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51491381
MWC phone show cancellation a 'nightmare' for firms - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology MWC phone show cancellation a 'nightmare' for firms By Jane Wakefield Technology reporter 13 February 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51491381 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Preparations at the event included health and safety measures but many firms still withdrew The cancellation of technology conference Mobile World Congress has left one start-up founder counting the cost in potential lost business. Vittorio Di Mauro told the BBC the situation was "a nightmare". Many big names pulled out of the event over concerns about the spread of coronavirus. Organiser the GSMA said that meant it was "impossible" for the event to go ahead, adding it was a "dark day" in the history of the annual tech event. Mr Di Mauro runs Connectlab which makes internet connected devices. His firm had spent around 50,000 euros on the conference, which he said was "a lot of money for us" but not as significant as the lack of contact with clients. "We are very disappointed, and not just because of the money we spent but not having the chance to meet customers. Barcelona is much more than a trade show, it is a meeting point for everyone in the industry," he told the BBC. Head scratching His firm is already coping with problems related to the coronavirus outbreak as its manufacturing base is in Shenzhen, where many of the factories remain closed to stop the spread of the virus. "These past couple of weeks have been a nightmare," he said. "This is a difficult time, like driving on the motorway and a fog descends with no visibility and you don't know what is ahead of you." Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Tech firms should be back in Barcelona for next year's MWC When he heard MWC was cancelled, he sent a bunch of hasty emails rearranging meetings with clients in Europe and is contemplating a trip to meet customers based in the US - all of which will mean more flights and more expense. "I woke up and I was scratching my head about what to do. Some meetings at MWC are organised but some happen by chance, so how do we recreate that?" However, he plans to go back to the event next year. "Big companies may decide that they can do without Barcelona but that's not possible for companies like us. Everyone is in one place and that is very valuable," he said. 'Dark day' Mobile analyst Ben Wood said many smaller firms might be considering whether to attend next year because "they have had to swallow many of the costs from this year's show". "The GSMA now needs to be careful that there is not a knock-on effect from this year's cancellation. Major companies and many attendees will be reviewing the importance of MWC to their business and the GSMA must work hard to have a clear path forward," he said. And he pointed out the big tech players often hosted their own events - "set-piece launches where they can control the message away from the hustle and bustle of a tradeshow". Image copyright Getty Images Image caption At a press conference the day after, the GSMA set out to explain its reasons for cancelling the conference Many of those firms are now hastily arranging press conferences for new products that they had intended to show off at the conference. Sony plans to launch its new phone - expected to be the Xperia 2 - via a YouTube video at the time the press conference was scheduled to take place. Meanwhile, organisers of the event have been attempting to clarify why the show was cancelled amid speculation about the true reason. "This is not about money - it's about health and safety and the reputation of our show," said Mats Granryd, director general of the GSMA. Rumours had circulated that the organisers had wanted city officials to declare a health emergency in order to claim back expenses on insurance. Mr Granryd described events as a "force majeure", a legal term for unforeseeable circumstances. "There is no way you can insure yourself out of a force majeure situation." According to its website, the GSMA takes out standard insurance cover on behalf of exhibitors, which does not cover the spread of communicable diseases unless health authorities issue travel restrictions. The association's chief executive, John Hoffman, promised the event would be back next year. "It is a very dark day, it is very disappointing. But we know the sun will shine," he said. "This is about our future together, and we look forward to hosting all of you, all of our partners from around the world, for MWC '21." Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Mobile World Congress Mobile phones Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story MWC 2020: Smartphone showcase cancelled over coronavirus fears 12 February 2020 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.