https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17152225
Apple forced to suspend push email service in Germany - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Apple forced to suspend push email service in Germany 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17152225 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption iPhone users in Germany have no push email service from Apple Apple has been forced to stop push email for iCloud and MobileMe users on iOS devices while they are in Germany. Push email allows users to see their messages on their devices automatically as soon as they are delivered. However, the ability to receive emails by other means, such as by opening the Mail app, is unaffected. Earlier this month a German court ruled that Apple's push technology infringed a Motorola Mobility patent. Apple says it believes Motorola Mobility's patent is invalid and is appealing against the decision. This latest patent litigation only affects iOS devices. Apple's push service to desktop and laptop computers, and other services such as Microsoft Exchange ActiveSync are not affected. Apple has published a support note on its website detailing a workaround for customers that are affected by the decision. Patent battles Apple and Motorola Mobility have been involved in a series of patent disputes in recent weeks. In December, Apple briefly pulled several iPad and iPhone models from its German online store after Motorola Mobility enforced a patent injunction against the company. More recently, Apple won a separate patent dispute with Motorola over the "slide to unlock" feature on many smart phones. Google announced last year that it plans to acquire Motorola Mobility, which holds 24,500 patents, in a $12.5bn (£7.9bn) deal. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Apple wins iPad dispute in China 23 February 2012 Patents: Apple wins over Motorola in 'slide-to-unlock' ruling 16 February 2012 Apple overturns Motorola's iPad and iPhone sales bans 8 March 2012 Related Internet links Apple Motorola The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.