https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-25297044
Technology firms seek government surveillance reform - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Technology firms seek government surveillance reform 9 December 2013 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-25297044 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption There have been concerns over surveillance programmes in the US Leading global technology firms have called for "wide-scale changes" to US government surveillance. Eight firms, Google, Apple, Facebook, Twitter, AOL, Microsoft, LinkedIn, and Yahoo, have formed an alliance called Reform Government Surveillance group. The group has written a letter to the US President and Congress arguing that current surveillance practice "undermines the freedom" of people. It comes after recent leaks detailed the extent of surveillance programmes. "We understand that governments have a duty to protect their citizens. But this summer's revelations highlighted the urgent need to reform government surveillance practices worldwide," the group said in an open letter published on its website. "The balance in many countries has tipped too far in favour of the state and away from the rights of the individual - rights that are enshrined in our Constitution. Analysis By Rory Cellan-JonesTechnology correspondent The fact that eight technology giants which are normally bitter rivals have united to condemn the extent of government surveillance shows just how strongly they feel. In part, this reflects the libertarian thinking that permeates Silicon Valley - but there's also a commercial aspect to their concerns. Around the world, consumers and governments have begun to question how safe it is to use American technology products, and in the words of Microsoft's signatory to the letter "People won't use technology they don't trust." The companies have prided themselves on the security of their customers' data. Now they have had to concede that governments have wide access to that data - and they are vowing to use strong encryption to repair the holes in their defences. But don't expect the intelligence agencies to sit back and do nothing - the scene is set for continuing conflict between the spies and Silicon Valley over control of the internet. "This undermines the freedoms we all cherish. It's time for a change," it added. Limited surveillance The move by the eight firms comes after whistle-blower Edward Snowden leaked information about surveillance carried out by the US government. Mr Snowden, an ex-US intelligence contractor, leaked documents to the media highlighting the various methods used by agencies to gather information. The leaks have pointed to agencies collecting phone records, tapping fibre-optic cables that carry global communications and hacking networks. Members of the group said the revelations indicated that the extent of surveillance needed to be controlled. "Reports about government surveillance have shown there is a real need for greater disclosure and new limits on how governments collect information," said Mark Zuckerberg, chief executive of Facebook, the world's biggest social networking firm. "The US government should take this opportunity to lead this reform effort and make things right." Q&A: Prism internet surveillance What could 'they' know about me? 'Essential' The scandal first came to light in June this year after the UK's Guardian newspaper published the first leaks by Mr Snowden. Since then, there have been concerns over how much user data firms have been asked to share with the agencies. In an attempt to allay such fears over data security, companies have called for permission to publish details of data requests. "Governments should allow companies to publish the number and nature of government demands for user information," they state. "In addition, governments should also promptly disclose this data publicly." Apple, Microsoft, Yahoo, Google and Facebook have all confirmed they have complied with orders to hand over data relating to "national security matters" to the US authorities, but have been forbidden from saying exactly how many requests they had received or details about their scope. Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionGoogle: Government surveillance could 'hit economy' Larry Page, chief executive of Google, said that security of users data was "critical" for firms, but added that the same had been "undermined by the apparent wholesale collection of data, in secret and without independent oversight, by many governments around the world". The group called upon the government to give companies the rights to provide details of any such future data requests to their users, "Transparency is essential to a debate over governments' surveillance powers and the scope of programs that are administered under those powers," it said. "Governments should allow companies to publish the number and nature of government demands for user information. In addition, governments should also promptly disclose this data publicly". View comments Related Topics Yahoo Facebook Google Cyber-security Apple Microsoft National Security Agency Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Spies would be foolish to ignore bulk email data - Rifkind 9 December 2013 Apple reveals government data requests 6 November 2013 Privacy group demands spy details from telecom firms 5 November 2013 Snowden leaks: Google 'outraged' at alleged NSA hacking 31 October 2013 Related Internet links Reform Government Surveillance The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.