https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16006524
YouTube's website redesign puts the focus on channels - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology YouTube's website redesign puts the focus on channels 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16006524 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Google says the refresh "will improve your life on YouTube", but members are unconvinced YouTube has revamped its website putting channels at the core of the service. A channel is a curated list of video clips chosen by a specific YouTube member or celebrity. Channels are now displayed in a central column on the site's home page resembling news feeds on social networks such as Facebook or Google+. Experts say the redesign may mean people spend longer on the site, but some users have attacked the change. Complaints Around 17 hours after an official "Get More Into YouTube" clip explaining the move went live, 6,703 members had clicked the "dislike" button compared to 2,280 who had clicked "like". "The layout is a mess! Why can't I remove vids which I've already watched?" wrote one member. Others wrote "R.I.P. Youtube" and "Change it back", although some complimented the change. The site's owner, Google, has posted a blog saying that the new design was "focused on helping you discover a broader range of entertainment", but said there might be "further tweaks" depending on members' feedback. It highlighted the fact that the site now offered deeper integration with Google+ and Facebook, helping members see what their friends were sharing without leaving YouTube's site. Channels from broadcasters, including the BBC and Channel 4, are also promoted. Google is also in the process of launching around 100 channels curated by celebrities and other well-known content providers. The firm is investing tens of millions of dollars into the project. Reports suggest the singers Madonna and Jay-Z, the actor Ashton Kutcher, the creator of the CSI TV shows Antony Zuiker, and the skateboard legend Tony Hawk will be among those providing content. Image caption Conference organiser TED's channel will soon compete against Madonna and Jay-Z for attention The majority of the new channels are expected to launch next year. Google said the site already attracts over 3 billion clip views per day. Yearning Company watchers believe the revamp will help make the site more "sticky". "This does the obvious thing of keeping people longer on their site," said Theresa Wise, an independent media analyst. "But it is also taking the behaviour we've seen of people going to sites such as Facebook and Twitter to see what videos are trending, and allows them to do it easily from within YouTube itself." Analysts also believe the backlash will be short-lived, noting similar reactions after refreshes by other sites. "The trouble with the kind of instant reaction is that most of the people who post their comments are those with extreme reactions, and their yearning for the old design will probably dissipate as they get used to it," said Ian Maude, internet analyst at Enders Analysis. "But I like it - it feels fresher and more up to date and the shift to channels helps YouTube move towards professional programming to create a more TV like service. "That makes it a more attractive environment for both content providers and advertisers." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story YouTube to offer UK film rentals 7 October 2011 YouTube blocks Lady Gaga channel 14 July 2011 Tech Know: Fluffy experiment 21 September 2011 Related Internet links YouTube Google Enders Analysis The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.