https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51961619
Coronavirus: Twitter bans 'unsafe' advice about the outbreak - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Coronavirus: Twitter bans 'unsafe' advice about the outbreak 19 March 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51961619 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Image copyright Getty Images Twitter says it will remove content that promotes unverified claims and misinformation about coronavirus. It said tweets that could put people at a higher risk of contracting Covid-19 would be banned under the revised safety rules. That includes unverified claims that specific groups are more susceptible to coronavirus. It also covers denial of expert guidance, and unofficial advice about ways to diagnose or treat the virus. “We will enforce this in close co-ordination with trusted partners, including public health authorities and governments, and continue to use and consult with information from those sources when reviewing content,” Twitter said in a post on its website. Harmful content will be triaged, it added, prioritising removing tweets that “present the biggest risk of harm”. A SIMPLE GUIDE: What are the symptoms? AVOIDING CONTACT: Should I self-isolate? STRESS: How to protect your mental health LOOK-UP TOOL: Check cases in your area MAPS AND CHARTS: Visual guide to the outbreak VIDEO: The 20-second hand wash However, the BBC's technology correspondent, Rory Cellan-Jones, said there was no specific option to report tweets of this nature. “Given the sheer volume of disinformation from everyone from anti-5G campaigners to homeopaths pushing fake remedies, Twitter has set itself what looks like an impossible task,” he said. “It may also find itself accused of Western or liberal bias, as has happened with previous attempts to crack down on other kinds of disinformation. “And it is not clear how it expects the Twitter community to help – none of the categories for reporting a tweet specify misinformation.” It follows an announcement from Facebook, Google, Microsoft and Reddit earlier this week, in which they committed to work with governments to fight misinformation and to help connect those in self-isolation. “We are working closely together on Covid-19 response efforts," the joint-statement said. “We’re helping millions of people stay connected while also jointly combating fraud and misinformation about the virus, elevating authoritative content on our platforms and sharing critical updates in co-ordination with government healthcare agencies around the world.” Social media sites and search engines are already placing official guidance from the NHS and World Health Organization at the top of search results. Related Topics Twitter Coronavirus pandemic Fake News Social media Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Facebook content moderators paid to work from home 18 March 2020 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.