https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-35593048
Apple ordered to unlock San Bernardino gunman's phone - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Apple ordered to unlock San Bernardino gunman's phone Dave Lee North America technology reporter 17 February 2016 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-35593048 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics San Bernardino shooting Image copyright AP Image caption Syed Rizwan Farook is seen in his California Department of Motor Vehicles photo Apple has been ordered to help FBI investigators access data on a phone used by San Bernardino gunman Syed Rizwan Farook. Farook and his wife killed 14 people in the California city last December before police fatally shot them. A court order demands Apple help circumvent security software on Farook's iPhone, which the FBI said contains crucial information. The BBC understands Apple will contest the order. Since a software update released in September 2014, data on Apple devices - such as text messages and photographs - have been encrypted by default. It means if a device is locked, only the passcode can be used to access the data. If 10 incorrect attempts at the code are made, the device will automatically erase all of its data. No-one, not even Apple, is able to access the data - a move the company, like several other tech firms in Silicon Valley, made following the Edward Snowden revelations into government surveillance. Brute force The FBI has asked Apple to do two things. First, it wants the company to alter Farook's iPhone so that investigators can make unlimited attempts at the passcode without the risk of erasing the data. Secondly, they want Apple to help implement a way to rapidly try different passcode combinations, to save tapping in each one manually. Farook is understood to have used a four-digit passcode, meaning there are 10,000 possible combinations. The FBI wants to use what is known as a "brute force" attack: literally trying out every combination until stumbling across the correct one and unlocking the phone. Apple has yet to respond publicly to the order. However, a source close to the proceedings told the BBC that Apple will likely contest the demand. In the past, the company has fought strongly against calls to access users' personal data, saying it would jeopardise the trust it has with its customers. On its website, Apple says: "For all devices running iOS 8 and later versions, Apple will not perform iOS data extractions in response to government search warrants because the files to be extracted are protected by an encryption key that is tied to the user's passcode, which Apple does not possess." This latest order is unique in that it acknowledges Apple cannot access the data. Instead, it asks the company to make it possible for police to take a trial-and-error approach. Other smartphones, including those powered by Google Android, also implement similar encryption technology on their devices. Follow Dave Lee on Twitter @DaveLeeBBC and on Facebook Related Topics Apple San Bernardino shooting Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Video San Bernardino shooting: Inside attackers' house 5 December 2015 San Bernardino shooting: Who were the attackers? 11 December 2015 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.