https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-35658764
'Hard questions' in Apple phone row - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology 'Hard questions' in Apple phone row 25 February 2016 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-35658764 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionJames Comey said he could see the value of encryption The FBI director has said the row over access to a dead murderer's iPhone was the "hardest question" he had tackled in his job. James Comey spoke to US politicians as the war of words between the FBI and Apple intensified. The FBI has asked Apple to unlock the iPhone of Syed Rizwan Farook who killed 14 people in December 2015. Apple has refused, saying the protection of personal data was "incredibly important". New world "This is the hardest question I have seen in government and it's going to require negotiation and conversation," Mr Comey told the House Intelligence Committee. "I love encryption, I love privacy, and when I hear corporations saying we're going to take you to a world where no one can look at your stuff, part of me thinks that's great," he said. However, he added, law enforcement saved lives, rescued children and prevented terror attacks using search warrants that gave it access to information on mobile phones. "We are going to move to a world where that is not possible anymore," he said. "The world will not end but it will be a different world than where we are today and where we were in 2014." People needed to understand "the costs associated with moving to a world of universal strong encryption", he added. Image copyright Reuters Image caption The row between Apple and the FBI is about how much access governments should have to data, said Mr Gates Mr Comey said it should be left to Congress and others to decide about what counted as reasonable law enforcement access to encrypted data. He also said if Apple did unlock the phone it was "unlikely to be a trailblazer" for many future cases. The speed with which the technology in smartphones changes meant any defects Apple exploited to get at data would not be present in newer gadgets. Despite this, he added that it would be "instructive" for other courts. At another hearing Microsoft President Brad Smith said it would be filing an amicus brief to support Apple's position. Mr Smith told a House Judiciary Committee that Microsoft "wholeheartedly" supported Apple on the issue of resisting calls to unlock the phone. Earlier this week Microsoft founder Bill Gates said the row should prompt a debate about the access that law enforcement gets to data in terror investigations. The row between Apple and the FBI over the phone of Farook blew up last week when the bureau asked the electronics firm for help to unlock the smartphone. Farook and his wife Tashfeen Malik killed 14 people and wounded 22 others during the attack in San Bernadino. Image copyright Reuters Image caption There are costs associated with moving to a world of strong encryption, said FBI boss James Comey So far, Apple has refused to unlock the phone. In an interview aired yesterday with US TV network ABC, Apple boss Tim Cook said the FBI was asking it to make "the software equivalent of cancer". He added: "Some things are hard and some things are right. And some things are both. This is one of those things." Apple has until 26 February to formally respond to the FBI order. Related Topics Apple Mobile phones Apps Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Video FBI director: We must understand the 'costs' of encryption 25 February 2016 Apple boss Tim Cook hits back at FBI investigation 25 February 2016 Zuckerberg is 'sympathetic' to Apple in its clash with FBI 22 February 2016 Apple v the FBI - a plain English guide 18 February 2016 Bill Gates calls for terror data debate 23 February 2016 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.