https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-46181800
Amazon asked to share Echo data in US murder case - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Amazon asked to share Echo data in US murder case 12 November 2018 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-46181800 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Getty Images A judge in the US has asked Amazon to hand over audio recordings from an Amazon Echo which was in a house where two women died. Their bodies were found under the porch of a home in New Hampshire with multiple stab wounds. The man accused of their murder has pleaded not guilty and is due to stand trial next year. Amazon said it would not hand over any data about the device without a legally-binding instruction. The judge had also requested any additional data, such as which devices were paired with it at the time the women were attacked in January 2017. Amazon told the Associated Press it would not hand over anything "without a valid and binding legal demand properly served on us". Nest camera and Amazon Echo help catch home intruders Last year the tech giant did agree to hand over data from an Echo that may have been operating at the time of a murder in Arkansas - but only after the defendant consented. The Amazon Echo is activated by a wake-up word - generally the name Alexa - but fragments of audio are recorded as it awaits a command. However, the data is only sent back to Amazon if the trigger word is uttered. Related Topics Artificial intelligence Amazon New Hampshire Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Nest camera and Amazon Echo help catch home intruders 28 July 2017 Amazon hands over Echo 'murder' data 7 March 2017 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.