https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16204663
Jailbreakers use Apple crash reports to 'free' iPhones - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Jailbreakers use Apple crash reports to 'free' iPhones By Paul Rubens Technology reporter 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16204663 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Chronic Dev's website asks users to send it their crash reports Thousands of iPhone owners have joined forces with a team of hackers to help them find new ways to jailbreak Apple's phone software. Jailbreaking involves unlocking a device so that it is not restricted to running software officially approved by the manufacturer. Mobile phones that run Google's Android operating system do not face this restriction and Microsoft allows its Windows Phone 7 operating system to be unlocked. But Apple has always fought very hard to prevent anyone jailbreaking its devices. The latest version of the iPhone's operating system is proving to be extremely hard to jailbreak fully, according to Joshua Hill, a member of the Chronic Dev hacker team. "Apple is really making it tough for us. The iPhone is now better protected than most nuclear missile facilities," he says. Bug hunt Hackers like Mr Hill hunt for programming errors, or bugs, in Apple's software. Bugs may result in a program crashing or shutting down, and they are like gold dust to hackers because sometimes they can be exploited to create a jailbreak. To help prevent this, Apple's phones record details of program crashes and send these reports back to the company. Apple's programmers can then analyse the crash reports and fix any underlying bugs that pose serious security risks or that could be exploited to create a jailbreak. But crash reporting causes particular problems for Mr Hill and his team. That is because the hackers may have to crash a particular program thousands of times as they work out how to exploit a bug successfully, Mr Hill says, and this alerts Apple that the bug exists and that hackers may be investigating it. There's nothing Apple can do that would make jailbreaking impossible. Joshua Hill, Chronic Dev In September Mr Hill was working on exploiting five separate bugs found in early versions of Apple's iOS 5 software to create a full or "untethered" jailbreak, but the most important ones had been patched by Apple when the final version of its software was released in October. Crash reporting was probably to blame, he believes. Crash reports The solution to this problem is to subvert Apple's crash reporting capability by turning it against the company, he says. "Chronic Dev is ready to turn this little information battle into an all-out, no-holds-barred information WAR," Mr Hill wrote on the Chronic-Dev blog recently, using his nom de guerre Posixninja. To do this he has written and distributed a program called CDevreporter that iPhone users can download to their PC or Mac. The program intercepts crash reports from their phones destined for Apple and sends them to the Chronic Dev team. If crash reports are like gold dust then Mr Hill and his team are now sitting on a gold mine. "In the first couple of days after we released CDevreporter we received about twelve million crash reports," he says. "I can open up a crash report and pretty much tell if it will be useful or not for developing a jailbreak, but we have so many that I am working on an automated system to help me analyse them." Malware protection Carl Leonard, senior research manager at Websense Security Labs, says that the popularity of CDevreporter shows that Apple is not just fighting hackers, but its customers as well. Image caption The Library of Congress has ruled that jailbreaking Apple's iPhones is not illegal in the US "Users are consciously trying to help the Chronic Dev team, so they clearly want jailbroken phones. They want the additional applications, customisations and features that Apple doesn't want them to have, and which would otherwise not be available to them." He says that Apple tries to prevent jailbreaking for security reasons - once a phone has been jailbroken users could unwittingly install malware that might not get past Apple's approval process. Mr Hill rejects this argument: "I am trying to make sure that my phone is safe and your phone is safe. Apple cares about money, not your safety." Apple said it had no comment to make on these claims at this time. Legal breaks It is certainly true that Apple has sometimes been slow to fix genuine security flaws in its software in the past, and on occasions hackers have stepped in to write and distribute fixes to protect users of jailbroken phones. "Sometimes there is a security benefit to jailbreaking, so you can be protected against some vulnerabilities," Mr Leonard concedes. "But people shouldn't just think jailbreaking is cool. It can be used for good and bad." Jailbreaking phones is legal in the United States,thanks to a ruling in July 2010by the Library of Congress - an agency that carries out legal research for the US government. It said it was permissible to circumvent access controls to a copyrighted operating system so long as the aim was to install "lawfully obtained" software. It is also "apparently not illegal" to jailbreak devices in the UK, although it does invalidate product warranties, according to Simon Halberstam, technology law expert and partner at Kingsley Napley. But in the future it is possible that criminals will expand on Mr Hill's idea by creating a program that hijacks the crash reports that Microsoft's Windows operating system generates. If successful they could attempt to use this information to infect computers with viruses and other malicious software. "It would probably not be a significant task to create something like this for Windows," Mr Leonard says. As yet the Chronic Dev team has not announced that it has found any bugs that it can exploit, but a member of the team called pod2g claims to have found a way to create an untethered jailbreak anyway. Even if Apple fixes the bug that makes this jailbreak possible, Mr Hill is confident that the hackers will find more ways. "There's nothing Apple can do that would make jailbreaking impossible," he says. "Apple will always add new features to its phones, and there will always be bugs in its software. It's just a matter of find the right ones." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Google moves to delete fraud apps 14 December 2011 Malware warning for smartphones 7 November 2011 Who are the jailbreakers? 20 October 2011 iPhone 4 jailbreak app goes live 2 August 2010 Related Internet links Apple Chronic-Dev ChevronWP7 Labs Microsoft Google Kingsley Napley The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.