https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-19726951
Driverless car bill is signed in California at Google headquarters - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Driverless car bill is signed in California at Google headquarters 26 September 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-19726951 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Governor Brown arrived in one of Google's driverless vehicles A bill to bring driverless cars to roads in California has been signed. State Governor Jerry Brown backed legislation on Tuesday, and said: "Today we're looking at science-fiction becoming tomorrow's reality". The bill was signed at the headquarters of Google, which has been testing a fleet of 12 autonomous computer-controlled vehicles for several years. Google co-founder Sergey Brin said self-driving cars would be "far safer" than those driven by humans. Other manufacturers, including Audi, Ford and Volvo have also been experimenting with the technology. Emergency back-up The bill, drawn up by Senator Alex Padilla, will establish safety and performance regulations to test and operate the vehicles on roads across the state. It requires the California Department of Motor Vehicles to draft the regulations by 2015. Anyone who gets inside a car and finds out the car is driving will be a little skittish Jerry Brown, Governor of California A licensed driver would still be required to sit behind the wheel, however, in order to provide back-up in an emergency. Google has said that it has logged more than 300,000 miles in its cars without an accident - although one of its vehicles was involved in a minor crash in summer 2011. The company said it was being driven manually at the time. "I think the self-driving car can really dramatically improve the quality of life for everyone," Google co-founder Sergey Brin said, adding that he thought the vehicles would be commercially available within the decade. Governor Brown said self-driving cars would at first make passengers feel uneasy. "Anyone who gets inside a car and finds out the car is driving will be a little skittish," he said. "But they'll get over it." 'Darn driverless cars' The cars are powered and controlled using a combination of sensors, location tracking and on-board computing power to drive the vehicle safely. Other less ambitious autonomous driving functions are already in use across the car industry - such as guided parking and adaptive cruise control. However, speaking after the signing of the Californian bill, one motoring trade group voiced concern. Image caption One trade group has highlighted concern over the new legislation for self-driving vehicles "Unfortunately this legislation lacks any provision protecting an automaker whose car is converted to an autonomous operation vehicle without the consent or even knowledge of that auto manufacturer," the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers said. Governor Brown's backing follows new regulations in Nevada, where a law was passed earlier this year to allow driverless cars on the state's roads. In Florida, similar moves have been made - but have ended up the subject of political debate. An advert which criticised a local Senate candidate was entitled "Those darn driverless cars", and raised questions about the technology's safety. One motoring news website described the advert as being "so misinformed, it may cross the line into libel". Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Driverless cars and how they would change motoring 10 May 2012 Google gets Nevada driving licence for self-drive car 8 May 2012 Driverless car: Google awarded US patent for technology 8 March 2012 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.