https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16181761
Royal wedding tops Google's Zeitgeist 2011 search list - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Royal wedding tops Google's Zeitgeist 2011 search list 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16181761 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption The royal wedding proves popular with Googlers In 2011, Britons were keen to find out how to wallpaper and all about the latest fitness craze Zumba. That's according to Google's annual Zeitgeist - a look back at the most popular search terms of the year. The royal wedding topped the list of "fastest rising" search terms, with Apple's yet-to-be-released iPhone 5 coming in second place. The most intriguing list was the "what is" top 10, with a diverse set of queries including "what is scampi". Nephrops Interest in scampi has gone up by over 80% over the year but David Jarrad, director of the Shellfish Association of Great Britain, is at a loss to say why. "I'm quite surprised. It has been a traditional pub grub for many decades and it remains the UK's most popular and valuable shellfish by a long way," he said. But he could not explain why interest had spiked so much this year. He could, however, offer an explanation of what scampi is for those who have not yet Googled it. FASTEST RISING SEARCHES Royal wedding iPhone 5 FIFA 12 Groupon iPad 2 Ryan Dunn Adele Minecraft Rebecca Black Ed Sheeran "Scampi is the tail of a Nephrops, also known as a Dublin Bay prawn or Norwegian lobster," he said. Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg will be heartened to know that the British public, despite voting against AV (Alternative Vote) in a referendum, did want to know more about it. It topped the "what is" list. Complex subjects Revealing themselves to be a diligent lot, Britons also sought out tips on how to revise. It topped the "how to" list, followed by another teenage obsession - how to snog. "As usual, search is helping people satisfy their appetite for celebrity pictures and salacious gossip - and this year is no different, with Kim Kardashian and Rebecca Black coming to the fore and Ricky Gervais the only man gatecrashing the female-dominated top 10 celebs list," said a Google spokesman. "But what we're also seeing is that people are turning to Google to understand complex subjects like the alternative vote system and searching for tips and tricks on how best to revise for exams," he added. Singer Adele made it into two top 10s - number two on the fastest-rising people list, just above the less obvious pop star Rebecca Black, whose debut single catapulted her into the limelight when it was released on YouTube to universal derision. "WHAT IS... ?" TOP SEARCHES What is AV What is scampi What are truffles What are piles What is 4D What are cookies What is copyright What is Zumba What is iCloud What is probate She also came seventh in "fastest-rising" searches, just below Ryan Dunn - the star of TV show Jackass who died in a car crash this year. Illustrating the British obsession with the latest gadgets and a love of a bargain, both the iPad 2 and Groupon also featuring in the "fastest-rising" list. There was interest in cookies, presumably the coding kind, possibly based on new guidelines about how websites can use them. Copyright also featured. That is sure to please the content industry as it continues efforts to educate people that downloading paid-content for free is illegal. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Twitter's top 2011 hashtags: #egypt and #tigerblood 8 March 2012 Street View reveals tsunami Japan 13 December 2011 Related Internet links Shellfish Association of Great Britain The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.