https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18194235
Cookie law: websites must seek consent from this weekend - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Cookie law: websites must seek consent from this weekend By Dave Lee Technology reporter, BBC News 25 May 2012 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18194235 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption The EU wants to put a stop to tracking cookies logging a user's activity without their knowledge Friday marks the last working day for UK businesses to prepare their websites for a new law governing the use of cookies. From Sunday, sites must obtain "informed consent" from visitors before saving cookies on a machine. Cookies are pieces of personal data stored when users browse the web, sometimes to power advertising. The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) is to launch a tool for the public to report non-compliant sites. It is expected that the vast majority of websites will not be ready in time. However, the ICO has said it would not take immediate action over non-compliant sites, and would instead offer guidance. Tracking data The rules are designed to tackle privacy issues resulting from the growing use of cookies which track users' browsing habits. The guidelines, set by the EU, mean visitors must be told what cookies are being placed on their machine. Some organisations may be made an example of in order to set the parameters of compliancy moving forward Vinod Bange, Data privacy lawyer Typically, this will mean a pop-up window seeking consent. The BBC, which brought its site in line with the guidelines on Thursday, allows users to opt out of certain cookies the first time they visit the website. An Ipsos MORI poll, commissioned by privacy solutions provider Truste, suggested that while 84% of online consumers aged 16-64 were aware of internet cookies, just 24% knew about the new guidelines. The owners of non-compliant websites face fines of up to £500,000, but the ICO has played down the threat of such serious action, telling the BBC it would take a soft approach to enforcement. "Up until now, if we received a complaint about your website we would point you in the direction of our guidance," said Dave Evans, group manager for the ICO. "Given that everyone has had a year [to comply], we're going to shift from that kind of approach to one which will be very much more focused on those people who don't appear to have done anything and asking them 'why not?''" Last week the government admitted that most of its sites would not comply with the new rules in time. It said it was "working to achieve compliance at the earliest possible date". Cookie flavours Cookies are small files that allow a website to recognise and track users. The ICO groups them into three overlapping groups: Session cookies Files that allow a site to link the actions of a visitor during a single browser session. These might be used by an internet bank or webmail service. They are not stored long term and are considered "less privacy intrusive" than persistent cookies. Persistent cookies These remain on the user's device between sessions and allow one or several sites to remember details about the visitor. They may be used by marketers to target advertising or to avoid the user having to provide a password each visit. First and third-party cookies A cookie is classed as being first-party if it is set by the site being visited. It might be used to study how people navigate a site. It is classed as third-party if it is issued by a different server to that of the domain being visited. It could be used to trigger a banner advert based on the visitor's viewing habits. The ICO insisted this weekend was not a deadline, but an attempt to help companies focus on their general cookie use. "We never said was that if you're not compliant by 27 May we will come and get you," Mr Evans told the BBC. "What we want is good compliance, not rushed compliance. If it's focused people's minds, that's a good thing." Changed stance The ICO has come under criticism from businesses for not being entirely clear about what constitutes compliance. Vinod Bange, a data privacy specialist from law firm Taylor Wessing, said many businesses were nervous about implementing solutions. "A lack of education and clear guidelines from the ICO on what constitutes compliance has left many businesses unsure of how to meet the directive with only one working day to go," he said. "Few businesses want to be the first to adopt a specific approach. This is a risky game, as some organisations may be made an example of in order to set the parameters of compliancy moving forward." This concern was shared by Tim Gurney, managing director of Wolf Software, a firm which helps websites become compliant. He said the lack of clear guidance had led to some firms adopting systems which damaged the way visitors interacted with sites. What we want to do is look at where our resources can best be put Dave Evans, ICO "Some of the implementations are very poor. For me, they're making a mistake because users will stop using their sites. "Those kind of solutions I can see being changed as the user starts to say 'I don't like that'." Industry help Mr Evans defended the ICO's approach, saying the ambiguity was to enable websites to interpret the rules to best suit their own audience and website design. He also told the BBC that he believed that in the long term issues over cookie use should be regulated by the industry rather than government. "What we want to do is look at where our resources can best be put," he said. "If we were putting all our resources into investigating cookies, well, the people would quite rightly be asking where our priorities lie. "Regulators have got resources that are not infinite. The best solutions are where industry sits down and develops it themselves. The more they can do, the easier it is for us to regulate." View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Cookies: Majority of government sites to miss deadline 17 May 2012 'Action needed' to meet UK's cookie tracking deadline 18 April 2012 Websites to give privacy warnings 14 November 2011 Google cookies 'bypassed Safari privacy protection' 17 February 2012 Cookie: monster? 8 July 2011 Around the BBC BBC guide to cookies Related Internet links ICO Wolf Software Taylor Wessing The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.