https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17270822
'Lulzsec hackers' arrested in international swoop - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology 'Lulzsec hackers' arrested in international swoop 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17270822 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Lulzsec were known for carrying out attacks for the "lulz", a variation of "lol", meaning "laugh out loud" Seven alleged hackers based in the US, UK and Republic of Ireland have been charged with crimes related to computer attacks said to have affected "over one million victims". The FBIsaid that five of the menwere involved in the group Lulzsec, while a sixth was a "member" of Antisec. It said that Lulzsec's "leader" Hector Xavier Monsegur had pleaded guilty in August to 12 criminal charges. The BBC understands Mr Monsegur subsequently co-operated with the FBI. It is believed that this action helped lead to the other accusations. The bureau said that Mr Monsegur - also known as Sabu - had admitted involvement in cyber attacks against the media groups Sony Pictures Entertainment, Fox Broadcasting Company and the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) among others. It said that Jake Davis, 19, from Lerwick, Shetland Islands; Ryan Ackroyd, 25, from Doncaster; and Darren Martyn, 25, from Galway, Ireland, have also been charged with two counts of computer hacking conspiracy. Donncha O'Cearrbhail, 19, from Birr, Ireland, faces one count of computer hacking conspiracy and a separate allegation that he disclosed an unlawfully intercepted data feed. The Irish police said they had arrested a male suspect in connection with the crackdown. Scotland Yard said an unnamed 17-year-old from south London had also been charged with two counts of computer hacking. The FBI added that Jeremy Hammond - nicknamed Anarchaos - had been arrested in Chicago on Monday in connection with the attack on the Stratfor security think tank carried out in December. It is alleged that the Antisec movement subsequently published stolen material to a file sharing website. 'Internal rift' According to the court papers Mr Monsegur formed Lulzsec last May. It said he acted as a "rooter", identifying vulnerabilities in victim's computer systems. 'For the Lulz' Hackers claiming to be part of Lulzsec said they had carried out or have been linked to the following attacks: May 7: US X Factor contestant database May 10: Fox.com user passwords May 15: database.Database listing locations of UK cash machines May 23: Sonymusic Japan website May 30: US broadcaster PBS. Staff logon information June 2: Sonypictures.com user information June 3: Infragard website (FBI affiliated organisation) June 3: Nintendo.com June 10: Pron.com pornographic website June 13: Senate.gov - website of US Senate June 13: Bethesda software website. User information June 14: EVE Online, League of Legends, The Escapist and others June 16:'Technical disruption' to the website of the CIA June 20: The website of the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) taken offline by denial of service attack Alongside other recruited hackers he is also alleged to have attacked the US Senate, the cyber security firm Unveillance, Visa, Mastercard and Paypal. The FBI said he faced a maximum sentence of more than 124 years in prison if found guilty of all counts. Prof Alan Woodward, from the University of Surrey's department of computing noted that other hackers appeared to have felt betrayed following reports that Mr Monsegur had aided law enforcement offices with the other arrests. "The hacker group Lulzsec have been relatively quiet since the middle of 2011 which matches with what is being reported about when the leader of this group was arrested," he said. "Judging by the level of activity this morning, where hackers have been pasting personal information about the person reported as having turned witness to implicate other hackers, it would appear that there is a considerable rift inside these groups." Trend Micro's director of security research, Rik Ferguson, added that while this might mark the end of Lulzsec, it would be premature to say the same about Anonymous. "Anonymous is a very different organisation to Lulzsec and other more closely linked groups - anyone can and does act in the name of Anonymous and their activities do not require individual hacker publicity or disclosure of personally identifiable details," he said. "The very fact that Sabu became the 'celebrity' he was, illustrates the real difference between Lulzsec and Anonymous. "I think the hackers we really need to worry about are those that trusted no-one and sought no glory in the first place." A tweetposted by AnonymousIRC- which identifies itself as the "Antisec embassy" - said: "We're sailing close to the wind, our crew is complete and doing fine." A messageposted by the YourAnonNewsadded: "Anonymous is a hydra, cut off one head and we grow two back." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Wikileaks publishes confidential emails from Stratfor 27 February 2012 FBI probes Anonymous phone hack 3 February 2012 'Anonymous' hack victims face repeat attacks 8 March 2012 Suspected LulzSec hacker arrested 23 September 2011 Related Internet links Paypal Ebay Sony Pictures Unveillance PBS US Senate FBI University of Surrey Trend Micro Stratfor The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.