https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16811628
EU probes Samsung over possible patent rights 'abuse' - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology EU probes Samsung over possible patent rights 'abuse' 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16811628 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Samsung redesigned one of its European tablets after it was sued by Apple Samsung's patent deals are being looked into by the European Commission. Competition regulators are investigating whether the firm used some of its intellectual property rights to "distort competition in European mobile device markets". The commission says it wants to know if Samsung has failed to live up to a commitment to license key technologies to rivals. The action comes as the company is involved in patent battles with Apple. The South Korean firm says it will co-operate with the inquiry. "Samsung is confident that its approach regarding the enforcement of its 3G standard-essential patents is consistent with all applicable antitrust principles," a statement said. "We believe that, upon the scrutiny of the facts, the commission will conclude that Samsung Electronics has acted in compliance with EU competition rules." The inquiry centres on Frand commitments - a promise by industry players to license innovations that are essential to an industry standard on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. This means that the owner cannot discriminate who gets to use its invention and that its fee cannot be excessive. The commission notes that in 1998 Samsung offered an "irrevocable commitment" to the European Telecommunications Standards Institute to respect Frand terms. But the regulator says that: "In 2011, Samsung sought injunctive relief in various member states against competing mobile device makers based on alleged infringements of certain of its patent rights which it has declared essential to implement European telephony standards." Lost lawsuits Samsung has made more than a dozen patent claims against Apple in Germany, the Netherlands, France and Italy relating to 3G-essential technologies. So far the courts have ruled against Samsung in the cases - in part because it was felt that the firm had failed to live up to its Frand commitments. However, patent consultant Florian Mueller, who has blogged about the various cases,notes that: "The European Commission can't wait until Samsung finally wins a ruling based on such a patent and enforces it, potentially causing irreparable harm." A spokesman for the European Commission confirmed that it had instigated the proceedings. He said that the commission had not received an official complaint from Apple or any other company about the matter. Counter-attacks Samsung has also been on the receiving end of patent and design-rights litigation. Some analysts view its lawsuits as a response to Apple's legal attack. The iPad-maker succeeded in having two of its competitors' tablets banned from sale in Germany last year forcing a redesign. The ruling against the Galaxy Tab 10.1 was upheld by the Düsseldorf Higher Regional Court today. Experts say the commission's intervention is likely to further complicate matters. "It is really difficult for Samsung to have the commission wading in when none of its competitors have made a complaint," said Vicki Salmon, a member of the UK's Chartered Institute of Patent Attorneys. "At a time when there is a lot of litigation between companies it doesn't help to be on the receiving end of an official inquiry." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Apple loses appeal over Galaxy Tab 10.1 in Dutch court 8 March 2012 Kodak sues Samsung over image patents in latest lawsuit 8 March 2012 Samsung redesigns tablet computer 17 November 2011 Related Internet links Samsung Apple European Commission Foss Patents CIPA ETSI The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.