https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17745938
'Action needed' to meet UK's cookie tracking deadline - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology 'Action needed' to meet UK's cookie tracking deadline 18 April 2012 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17745938 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Research suggests UK-based organisations have not digested the upcoming computer cookie law There are on average 14 tracking tools per webpage on the UK's most popular sites, according to a study. Privacy solutions provider Truste suggests that means a user typically encounters up to 140 cookies and other trackers while browsing a single site. The research was published less than 40 days before strict rules come into effect governing cookie use. The study was carried out in March and covered the UK's 50 most visited organisations. The firm said that 68% of the trackers analysed belonged to third-parties, usually advertisers, rather than the site's owner. "The high level of third-party tracking that is taking place is certainly an area of question and scrutiny," Dave Deasy, Truste's vice president of marketing, told the BBC. "It's not illegal to do the tracking - the question is whether you are giving consumers enough awareness that it is happening and what you are doing with the data." Deadline On 26 May the UK's Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) imposes an EU directive designed to protect internet users' privacy. The law says that sites must provide "clear and comprehensive" information about the use of cookies - small files which allow a site to recognise a visitor's device. It says website managers must: Tell people that the cookies are there Explain what the cookies are doing Obtain visitors' consent to store a cookie on their device "The information needs to be upfront - without information people can't give consent," the ICO's principal policy adviser for technology, Simon Rice, told the BBC. Image caption The ICO says the vast majority of visitors to its site refuse to allow themselves to be tracked The ICO says the rules cover cookies used to provide information to advertisers, count the number of unique visitors to a page and recognise when a user has returned to a site to adjust the content that is subsequently displayed. However, it says exceptions are likely to be made if the cookie is only being used to ensure a page loads quickly by distributing the workload over several servers, or is employed to track a user as they add goods to a shopping basket. Many sites have yet to add a feature asking for users' consent. 95% of 55 major UK-based organisations surveyed on behalf of KPMG were still not compliant with the cookie law at the end of last month, the accountancy firm reported . Truste acknowledges that the vast majority of those who took part in its study had published a privacy policy - but adds that only 16% had a summary section that was "easily digestible", and 80% did not disclose how long data about visitors was retained. Cookie flavours Cookies are small files that allow a website to recognise and track users. The ICO groups them into three overlapping groups: Session cookies Files that allow a site to link the actions of a visitor during a single browser session. These might be used by an internet bank or webmail service. They are not stored long term and are considered "less privacy intrusive" than persistent cookies. Persistent cookies These remain on the user's device between sessions and allow one or several sites to remember details about the visitor. They may be used by marketers to target advertising or to avoid the user having to provide a password each visit. First and third-party cookies A cookie is classed as being first-party if it is set by the site being visited. It might be used to study how people navigate a site. It is classed as third-party if it is issued by a different server to that of the domain being visited. It could be used to trigger a banner advert based on the visitor's viewing habits. Half-baked idea? The move has proved controversial. A survey published last month by the digital marketing firm, Econsultancy, found that 82% of 700 marketers contacted did not believe the cookie law was a positive development. One respondent said: "Plain and simple - this will kill online sales." The claim reflects a belief that when presented with a choice, most users would refuse to allow cookies to track them - making it impossible, for instance, for a retailer to target adverts for a computer at a user who had previously looked at an article about upgrading IT equipment. The ICO's own research suggests this could be an issue. Since asking users to click a box if they agree to accept cookies from its site, the organisation says just 10% of visitors have complied. However, BT's experience points to a possible solution. Since March a pop-up message on its home page has told first-time visitors that unless they take up an offer to change its settings, then they have consented to its "allow all cookies" default rule. "So far, we can see that customers are generally choosing to keep the cookies that we use to provide the best experience on our webpages," a spokeswoman told the BBC. Early adopter The ICO says it has not been prescriptive about the wording that firms use. However, organisations need to be careful about relying too heavily on opt-out schemes. Image caption BT offers first-time visitors the chance to opt out of its default cookie settings "At present evidence demonstrates that general awareness of the functions and uses of cookies is simply not high enough for websites to look to rely entirely in the first instance on implied consent," the regulator warns. It adds that those who fail to implement its rules properly could be fined up to £500,000. Truste says companies across the EU and beyond will closely watch how the regulator enforces the directive. "A lot of this starts with making sure companies understand what level of third-party tracking is actually happening on their sites - in many cases they don't," said Mr Deasy. "The UK is somewhat taking a leadership role in terms of actually following through and having a hard date for when compliance needs to start taking place." View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Google cookies 'bypassed Safari privacy protection' 17 February 2012 Websites to give privacy warnings 14 November 2011 Cookie: monster? 8 July 2011 Related Internet links ICO Truste KPMG BT Econsultancy The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.