https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51930681
Coronavirus: Israel enables emergency spy powers - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Coronavirus: Israel enables emergency spy powers By Joe Tidy Cyber-security reporter 17 March 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51930681 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the measures were temporary (file photo) The Israeli government has approved emergency measures for its security agencies to track the mobile-phone data of people with suspected coronavirus. The new powers will be used to enforce quarantine and warn those who may have come into contact with infected people. The temporary laws were passed during an overnight sitting of the cabinet, bypassing parliamentary approval. The Association for Civil Rights in Israel called the move "a dangerous precedent and a slippery slope". Such powers are usually reserved for counter-terrorism operations. Details of how the "cyber-monitoring" will work were not disclosed but it is understood the location data collected through telecommunication companies by Shin Bet, the domestic security agency, will be shared with health officials. Once an individual is highlighted as a possible coronavirus case, the health ministry will then be able to track whether or not they are adhering to quarantine rules. It can also send a text message to people who may have come into contact with them before symptoms emerged. The head of the justice system said the move would save lives, while Israel's prime minister said it struck a balance between public-health needs and civil rights. Israel is still in the relatively early stages of the pandemic - and many ordinary Israelis are used to complying with measures they see as important for their security. But this is a public health threat, not a security one. The ultimate test of bolstering the powers of surveillance agencies will lie in their longer term effectiveness: whether they can slow the spread of the coronavirus. Some are uneasy. In an often tense and divided region, increasingly parts of the security infrastructure are doubling up as tools of public-health enforcement by both Israeli and Palestinian authorities. The scale and duration of the health and economic crises may strain that situation. Israel has confirmed more than 300 cases of the virus and imposed a series of other measures to stop the spread. They include closing schools, shopping centres, restaurants and most places of leisure, as well as limiting gatherings to 10 people. Tech joins fight against coronavirus Is S Korea's rapid testing the key to coronavirus? Coronavirus: How many cases are there in your area? Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says the new powers will last for 30 days only. Speaking ahead of the vote, he said: "Israel is a democracy and we must maintain the balance between civil rights and the public's needs. "These tools will very much assist us in locating the sick and stopping the virus from spreading." Although it is shrouded in secrecy, other countries are believed to collect data from mobile phones to be used in mass-surveillance programmes or in specific criminal investigations that require case-by-case legal permission. China's sophisticated mass surveillance system is also being used to keep a tab on infected individuals. Tencent, the company behind popular messaging app WeChat, has launched a QR-code-based tracking feature. The "close contact detector" app notifies the user if they have been in close contact with a virus carrier and enforce quarantines. In South Korea, similar technology has been criticised for an invasion of privacy as some people were accused of having extramarital affairs based on their location data being made public. Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Israel Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Coronavirus: A visual guide to the pandemic 27 March 2020 Coronavirus in UK: How many confirmed cases are there in your area? 27 March 2020 Coronavirus in South Korea: How 'trace, test and treat' may be saving lives 12 March 2020 Coronavirus: China's tech fights back 3 March 2020 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.