https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17393008
Landmark 10 millionth .uk site registered with Nominet - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Landmark 10 millionth .uk site registered with Nominet 16 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17393008 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Swarve Magazine's owner says plans to increase the number of top-level domains could prove expensive The 10 millionth web address ending in .uk has been claimed by the founder of Hampshire-based firm, SN Technologies. swarvemagazine.co.uk was registered by Steven Northam for a photography-based publication set to launch this summer. Registration service Nominet described the news as a "mega-milestone". It took charge of the top-level domain name in 1996 when there were 26,000 .uk sites. However, it faces a shake-up with a huge explosion in the number of international domains later this year. Mr Northam seemed slightly thrown by the unexpected publicity. "It's one of our new investments" he told the BBC. "Basically a lot of it's not public yet, so I don't want to say too much." Rapid growth Nominet's chief executive, Lesley Cowley, said strong demand for a .uk address reflected the fact that it inspired trust. "We've been growing at around the 10% for the past couple of years," she said. "It shows the very healthy growth of the UK internet - lots of new businesses getting online and buying what is often their first domain name." Nominet - a not-for-profit organisation - says that around 70% of the web address names are renewed at the end of their two-year expiry date making it the world's second-most popular country code. Demand may be affected by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers' IIcann) decision to radically increase the number of top-level domains. The adult-themed .xxx launched last September and Icann plans to allow a wide range of other names later this year. The organisation is currently discussing the move with Ms Cowley and other registry managers at a public meeting in Costa Rica. Nominet itself has applied to launch and manage .wales and .cymru. Another not-for-profit venture, Dot Scot Registry, has applied for .scot. They will learn if they - and others - have been successful at an announcement in London on 2 May. Cyber-squatters Nominet believes that whatever the news, the appeal of their core product will endure. "There is a benefit to consumers and businesses to having a choice," Ms Cowley said. "But I think that because we are so well known within the net, people will still go for .uk if that is the most appropriate suffix for them." However, Mr Northam expressed concern at the potential expense of having to register his new magazine and other businesses with new top-level names to avoid the risk of cybersquatters - people who buy a name in the hope of selling it for a higher price. "It causes more hassle," he said. "Some of them are quite expensive to register. We've already got 60 domain names and if you want to protect all those by having to buy extra names like .xxx after them then it is quite costly." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story UK judges get new web domain name .xxx pornography web domain names go on general sale 8 March 2012 Web domains to get major overhaul with custom names 11 January 2012 Related Internet links SN Technologies Nominet Icann Dot Scot Registry ICM Registry The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.