https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51245616
Facebook and YouTube moderators sign PTSD disclosure - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Facebook and YouTube moderators sign PTSD disclosure 25 January 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51245616 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Getty Images Content moderators are being asked to sign forms stating they understand the job could cause post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), according to reports. The Financial Times and The Verge reported moderators for Facebook and YouTube, hired by the contractor Accenture, were sent the documents. Moderators monitor objectionable materials and often view hundreds of disturbing images in a day's work. Accenture said the wellbeing of workers was a "top priority". In a statement the company added only new joiners were being asked to sign the forms, whereas existing employees were being sent the form as an update. "We regularly update the information we give our people to ensure that they have a clear understanding of the work they do," Accenture said in a statement. Accenture is a professional services company hired by firms including Google, Facebook and Twitter. Its contractors work as outside monitors for social media sites to remove any inappropriate content. The job often requires watching and listening to disturbing posts that can be violent or sexual in nature. Both The Verge and Financial Times report that moderators were sent documents that required to them to acknowledge the mental health risks of the role. "I understand the content I will be reviewing may be disturbing. It is possible that reviewing such content may impact my mental health, and it could even lead to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)," the statement read. The notices were sent to Accenture employees in the United States and Europe. The reports come as Facebook faces lawsuits from former content moderators over a range of mental health issues in California and Ireland. Facebook said it did not review Accenture's new form, but the social media firm does require its partners to offer psychological support for content moderators. Google - YouTube's parent company- also said it did not review the documents but required its partners to offer mental health support. The forms sent to the moderators outline support services on offer, including a hotline and a wellness coach. But it concedes in the forms that neither one is staffed by medical professionals and "cannot diagnose or treat mental disorders". Cases of PTSD and other mental health issues have been on the rise among content moderators. In 2019 The Verge published a behind the scenes report of the of Facebook Moderators. One moderator quoted in that report said he "sleeps with a gun by his side" after doing the job. Mental health experts say understanding the psychological strains of this job does not mitigate its risks. Related Topics Facebook Google YouTube Mental health Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story The people policing the internet's most horrific content 20 August 2019 Burnout: 'Sick and tired of feeling sick and tired' 22 January 2020 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.