https://www.bbc.com/news/technology
Technology - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC BBC News News NavigationSections Home Coronavirus Video World US & Canada UK Business TechTech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Long Reads Have Your Say More More sections Tech Home Coronavirus Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Local News Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Economy Global Education Global Car Industry Business of Sport TechTech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health Health Home Coronavirus In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Long Reads Have Your Say Tech BBC News Technology Zoom is in everyone's living room - how safe is it? It may have got everyone chatting but some are talking about whether it is actually safe. 10h10 hours ago Technology Top Stories Zoom is in everyone's living room - how safe is it? It may have got everyone chatting but some are talking about whether it is actually safe. 10h10 hours ago Technology Tesla gives New York hundreds of ventilators New York has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the US and a shortage of ventilators. 4h4 hours ago Technology Food wholesalers offer online orders to sell stock After trade from business stops, food and drink wholesalers are launching online home deliveries. 6h6 hours ago Technology NHS uses tech giants to plan coronavirus response Amazon and Microsoft are among those helping with a dashboard to model where ventilators should go. 1da day ago Technology Tech Tent: Hand over your virus data Mobile-phone tracking could be part of the solution but at what price? 7h7 hours ago Technology Online child abuse warning during lockdown Europol is warning that online child abusers are preparing to take advantage of more unsupervised kids online. 8h8 hours ago Technology Seven ways to stop bad information Experts are calling on the public to practise ‘information hygiene’ to help stop the spread of falsehoods online. 23ha day ago Featured Contents Zoom is in everyone's living room - how safe is it? It may have got everyone chatting but some are talking about whether it is actually safe. 10h10 hours ago Technology Tesla gives New York hundreds of ventilators New York has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the US and a shortage of ventilators. 4h4 hours ago Technology Food wholesalers offer online orders to sell stock After trade from business stops, food and drink wholesalers are launching online home deliveries. 6h6 hours ago Technology NHS uses tech giants to plan coronavirus response Amazon and Microsoft are among those helping with a dashboard to model where ventilators should go. 1da day ago Technology Tech Tent: Hand over your virus data Mobile-phone tracking could be part of the solution but at what price? 7h7 hours ago Technology Online child abuse warning during lockdown Europol is warning that online child abusers are preparing to take advantage of more unsupervised kids online. 8h8 hours ago Technology Seven ways to stop bad information Experts are calling on the public to practise ‘information hygiene’ to help stop the spread of falsehoods online. 23ha day ago Tesla gives New York hundreds of ventilators New York has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the US and a shortage of ventilators. 4h4 hours ago Technology Food wholesalers offer online orders to sell stock After trade from business stops, food and drink wholesalers are launching online home deliveries. 6h6 hours ago Technology NHS uses tech giants to plan coronavirus response Amazon and Microsoft are among those helping with a dashboard to model where ventilators should go. 1da day ago Technology Tech Tent: Hand over your virus data Online child abuse warning during lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Drone police slammed for 'shaming' walkers 6h6 hours ago Derby Vodafone offers 30 days free unlimited mobile data 9h9 hours ago Technology Huawei flagship phones launch amid Covid-19 crisis 1da day ago Technology The sports turning to gaming during lockdown 1da day ago Technology Government orders 10,000 ventilators from Dyson 1da day ago Business Comments Watch/Listen 1:32 Video 1 minute 32 seconds Click News: The cello playing robot 2:43 Video 2 minutes 43 seconds Hands-on with Huawei P40 Pro 1:48 Video 1 minute 48 seconds Seven tips for successful video meetings 2:31 Video 2 minutes 31 seconds Actors use Zoom to save coronavirus-hit birthdays 2:03 Video 2 minutes 3 seconds Joe Wicks keeps children fit with online PE Features & Analysis What are ventilators and how do they work? The uncertain future for China's electric car makers Step-by-step guide: How to video call your family Will the coronavirus change the way we watch films? Reducing brain damage in sport without losing the thrills Latest Updates Posted at 22:08 Click News: The cello playing robot The cello playing robot and other tech news BBC Click's Paul Carter looks at some of the best tech stories of the week. Posted at 19:21 Tesla gives New York hundreds of ventilators New York has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the US and a shortage of ventilators.Read more Posted at 16:42 Food wholesalers offer online orders to sell stock Cristina Criddle Technology reporter After trade from business stops, food and drink wholesalers are launching online home deliveries.Read more Posted at 16:41 Tech Tent: Hand over your virus data Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent Mobile-phone tracking could be part of the solution but at what price?Read more Posted at 16:18 The classic hits that are now coronavirus anthems You'll Never Walk Alone is among tracks enjoying renewed popularity amid the coronavirus crisis.Read more Posted at 15:04 Online child abuse warning during lockdown Europol is warning that online child abusers are preparing to take advantage of more unsupervised kids online.Read more Posted at 14:18 Vodafone offers 30 days free unlimited mobile data Vodafone is offering half a million pay monthly mobile customers 30 days of free unlimited data.Read more Posted at 13:20 Zoom is in everyone's living room - how safe is it? Jane Wakefield Technology reporter It may have got everyone chatting but some are talking about whether it is actually safe.Read more Posted at 3:40 Little Mix's Perrie Edwards on pop, panic attacks and knitting Mark Savage BBC music reporter The singer says Little Mix are going back to "pure pop" after splitting with Simon Cowell.Read more Posted at 0:27 Seven ways to stop bad information BBC Trending What's popular and why Experts are calling on the public to practise ‘information hygiene’ to help stop the spread of falsehoods online.Read more Show more updates Around the BBC The hidden cost of your daily water use BBC Future The psychology of sudden job loss BBC Worklife The food that defines Australia BBC Travel The best TV shows of 2020 so far BBC Culture How much of your body is actually you? BBC Earth What Covid-19 means for the environment BBC Future What good crisis leadership looks like BBC Worklife Find us here News daily newsletter Get news from the BBC in your inbox each weekday morning Mobile app Find out more about our BBC News App Get in touch Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Send an SMS or MMS to +44 7624 800100 Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News BreakingBreaking news Close breaking news News NavigationSections Sections Home Coronavirus UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Alba Wales Cymru Local News World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada Business Business Home Your Money Market Data Companies Economy Global Car Industry Business of Sport Politics Politics Home Parliaments Brexit Election 2019 TechTech selected Science Health Health Home Coronavirus Family & Education Family & Education Home Young Reporter Global Education Entertainment & Arts Stories Video & Audio In Pictures Newsbeat Reality Check Special Reports Long Reads Have Your Say Disability BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.