https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17065962
Apple releases a 'Mountain Lion' OS developer preview - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Apple releases a 'Mountain Lion' OS developer preview 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17065962 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Mountain Lion will be released to the public in late summer 2012 Apple has announced a preview of Mountain Lion, the latest update to the Mac operating system (OS). The update, released for software developers, "brings popular apps and features from iPad to the Mac", Apple said. The software also includes Gatekeeper, a feature which provides added security when downloading apps. The preview comes as Microsoft prepares for the release of its next OS Windows 8 later this year. With Windows 8, Microsoft is aiming to bring the experience of using mobile devices and other computers closer together. Mountain Lion indicates Apple too is trying to merge functions and programs typically found on smartphones and tablets into the desktop environment. The new system includes apps like Game Center and Messages, both familiar already familiar to Apple's mobile operating system iOS. In a press statementPhilip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of worldwide marketing saidMountain Lion "sets a rapid pace of development for the world's most advanced personal computer operating system". App check With Gatekeeper, Apple is attempting to enhance protection when downloading apps from the internet. Apple said the feature: "Gives you control over which apps can be downloaded and installed on your Mac." Users can chose to install apps from any source - from Apple and registered developers - or just from the Mac App Store itself. Reaction to the security measures has so far been mixed. Several technology news sites pointed out that while a developer could have their registration revoked for distributing malware, Gatekeeper would not remove bad apps that had already been installed. "Unless it is known malware, once you OK it, it'll never be checked again," wroteAdrian Kingsley-Hughes on Zdnet. Gatekeeper will help spot if an app has been modified, potentially to include malware, but it won't vet app developers or their products. "It's not a background check for developers,"Jason Snell wrote in Computer World. "Getting a developer certificate isn't like getting a passport or a driver's license." Apple, which names Mac OS versions after big cats, did not say how much Mountain Lion would cost. Users will be able to upgrade to Mountain Lion in late summer 2012. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Apple wins 'slide-to-unlock' case 16 February 2012 Social apps 'harvest user data' 15 February 2012 Related Internet links Apple ZDnet Computerworld The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.