https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18029771
Microsoft's Bing search engines to use Facebook tips - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Microsoft's Bing search engines to use Facebook tips 10 May 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18029771 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption The new social results will appear in a grey column on the right-hand side of Bing's results page Microsoft is revamping its Bing search engine to include advice from Facebook and other social media platforms. The move involves the introduction of a new sidebar which seeks to connect users with friends and other enthusiasts who can provide help. The firm says it is based on the fact "90% of people consult with a friend or expert before making a decision". Surveys suggest Bing has about a 15% share of the US search market, lagging behind Google's 66% portion. The new service appears on the right-hand side of all results and includes a feature dubbed Friends Who Might Know. "Bing suggests friends on Facebook who might know about the topic - based on what they 'like', their Facebook profile information, or photos they have shared so you can easily ask them about relevant experiences and opinions," said Microsoft on its blog . "For example, if you're searching for diving spots in Costa Rica... you may discover that one of your friends knows a great spot, based on photos from their last trip." 'Holy Grail' Beyond Facebook the firm said it would also flag up other experts identified from their posts on Google's social network Google+ as well as Twitter, Foursquare, Quora and Linkedin. Microsoft said that the service would roll out "in the coming days" in the US, but did not mention other locations. "Using social signals for search results is obviously the Holy Grail as people tend to trust each other more and can help with the whole discovery process," Sameet Sinha, an internet analyst at the investment bank B Riley & Co told the BBC. Image caption Users can post questions to flagged-up friends through the search site's results page "This wlll help Microsoft compete against Google and may encourage people to try switching to Bing." The move builds on a partnership between Microsoft and Facebook created when the Windows-maker paid $240m for a 1.6% stake in the social network in 2007. When Facebook goes public soon, that stake will be worth more than $1bn. However, Microsoft runs the risk that if the latest tie-up proves successful it could encourage Facebook to launch its own search service. "Facebook could capture around 22% of the global search market by simply launching its own search engine tomorrow," suggested the London-based digital marketing agency Greenlight which has carried out a study into the matter. "It wouldn't need to be a spectacular engine either, just well integrated into the Facebook experience." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Google and Facebook top 2011's most visited sites in US 8 March 2012 Google freshens up search engine 4 November 2011 Inside Microsoft's innovation centre 27 February 2011 Related Internet links Bing Facebook Google Twitter Foursquare Quora Linkedin B Riley & Co The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.