https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16160009
Music service Rara.com aims for digital non-adopters - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Music service Rara.com aims for digital non-adopters 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16160009 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption The site is designed to not look like a "spreadsheet", Rara.com said A new song-streaming service is targeting music lovers who do not currently pay for digital tracks. Rara.com, which has launched in 16 countries, said its research suggested that 60% of consumers had never used a digital music service. The organisation aims to simplify the process. For a monthly subscription, users can select and listen to tracks via their standard web browser. Its main competitor is Spotify, which has more than two million paying users. In addition to the UK, Rara.com is available across much of Europe and the US. It will expand to seven further countries, including Canada and Mexico, by the end of the week. After an initial trial price of 99p a month for the first three months, users can pay for either a £4.99 subscription allowing web-only listening, or £9.99 to enable mobile listening on a smart phone. However, unlike some of its rivals, Rara.com will not offer a free advertising-supported option. 'Simple goal' The site's chairman, Rob Lewis, said his service was not looking to challenge already popular services like Spotify and iTunes but was instead aiming for a relatively untapped market of non-digitally savvy music fans. A survey of 1,000 adults carried out for the organisation found that 70% of respondents had not bought a digital music track over the previous six months. People are telling other people how brilliant music-streaming services are Will Findlater, Editor, Stuff Magazine "Unlike the CD, seven years after the formation of iTunes the vast majority of consumers are not adopting digital," Mr Lewis told the BBC. "The simple goal behind this service is not to compete with all the existing digital players, but to roll out to all the major territories in the world a digital music service that's designed for the mass market of people who are either not technically literate, or like music but don't know a huge amount about it." Mr Lewis said Rara.com's interface was designed not to feel like "a spreadsheet". Playlists will be highly curated by guest editors on the site, the first of which will be Grammy award-winning Imogen Heap. The mobile application, offered on both Android and iPhone, runs using "networked aware mobile streaming" - a process which means any played track is automatically stored on the device to allow offline listening. Mr Lewis said due to the service not having a free option, artists should receive more money per play than on other rival offerings. Crowded house The streaming music market is becoming increasingly crowded with services such as Grooveshark, Rhapsody and Rdio all offering similar products. Earlier this month,Spotify announced it is opening up its service to third-party developerswho have been invited to build applications utilising the music library. Will Findlater, editor of Stuff Magazine, believes it will be hard to topple Spotify from its position of market leader, but there is a potentially huge user base waiting to be tapped. "Although the likes of Spotify allow you to choose to cache music on your computer - Rara is for people who don't know what caching means. I'm not sure if that in itself is enough of a good sell - but the trial price is pittance. "Other companies will benefit from the fact Spotify has already shown what this kind of service can do. People are telling other people how brilliant music streaming services are." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Digital music: Can Rara go far? 13 December 2011 Spotify opens up to add-on apps 30 November 2011 Virgin Media and Spotify pair up 31 October 2011 Related Internet links Spotify Rara.com The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.