https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51909812
Coronavirus: How easy it for the UK to make more ventilators? - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Coronavirus: How easy it for the UK to make more ventilators? 17 March 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51909812 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Image copyright Getty Images British engineering firms have been called on to switch to making medical ventilators as concern grows about the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. For patients critically ill with Covid-19, access to a ventilator could be a matter of life or death. The machines get oxygen into the lungs and remove carbon dioxide from the body when people are too sick to breathe on their own. That might sound simple but it is crucial to keep pressure to a minimum to avoid causing further damage. In addition, if the oxygen level is too high, that can do harm. As a result, intensive care unit (ICU) ventilators need to not only keep people breathing but also accurately monitor their lungs, using a mix of airflow, temperature, humidity and pressure sensors. Hospitals across the world now urgently need more of this kit. Skip Twitter post by @MattHancock Calling all manufacturers who can support our National Effort for #coronavirus ventilator production - to help, contact Government Business Support team: 0300 456 3565 / ventilator.support@beis.gov.uk — Matt Hancock (@MattHancock) March 16, 2020 Report End of Twitter post by @MattHancock In the UK, the government is speaking to a wide range of manufacturers to see if they can lend a hand. The goal is to have "many times" the current number - about 20,000 additional machines as quickly as possible. "The fact the government is asking manufacturers to make a different product to what they normally make is unprecedented since the World War Two," Justin Benson, from the consultancy KMPG, said. "It's a relatively complex piece of equipment with lots of components and a dedicated supply chain. So asking someone who makes a car to produce a respirator would take them some time." Others are more plain spoken about the idea ventilator assembly lines could be established at places such as Honda's Swindon plant. "It would take too long," said Stephen Phipson, chief executive of the engineering trade body Make UK. "We already have companies that build other people's designs for them - everything from alarm systems to signalling systems for trains. These are the companies you need, which can place components on circuit boards, do the wiring, testing and assembling. Building cars is a very different matter." 'Ready and willing' So while big name manufacturers such as Rolls-Royce and JCB have also been invited to discuss playing a role, it could be lesser known companies that take the lead. Gloucestershire-based Renishaw is one to have already been approached by the Cabinet Office. The company makes small precision-measurement parts, which are used in other types of medical equipment as well as aircraft. Image copyright GE Healthcare Image caption ICU ventilators use touchscreens to provide a range of tools to assess the appropriate respiratory therapy "We're still trying to understand the medical device requirements," said spokesman Chris Pockett. "But we're willing and want to contribute to the national effort." Woking-headquartered TT Electronics is another potential contributor. It makes speciality coils and ultra-fine wound wire for radiation therapy equipment and surgical navigation devices. Although its involvement with ventilators has been limited to producing power supplies, a spokeswoman said it was "ready to help in any way that we can". Other parts, however, may still need to be sourced from further afield. This is where companies such as Dyson might have a role to play, suggested Make UK, helping to ensure supplies of semiconductor chips and other parts that would be too complex to make locally. "It takes us a matter of weeks to scale up a factory to assemble something but sometimes the lead time on these components can be months," said Mr Phipson. "So making sure that that point is covered off first, which is the priority, is really important." A spokeswoman for Dyson said it was already "working with other companies to see if we can provide a rapid solution". Safety checks It typically takes two to three years to develop and launch a ventilator. So convincing the industry's big players - such as General Electric and Philips - to let their products be made locally under licence is the likely plan of action. However, there would still be other hurdles to overcome. Abingdon-based Penlon already makes a bulkier type of ventilator used during anaesthesia. Its marketing chief, Craig Thompson, warned bureaucracy may be the biggest challenge of all. "Ventilators are less sophisticated than things like smartphones and Xboxes," he said. "This is not a technical challenge but a regulatory compliance one." Even if a ventilator used an existing design, he said, it still needed to undergo rigorous testing if made at a new site. And following that, there was usually a long wait for the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency to sign off the product. Under normal circumstances, all this typically takes a year. "The purpose of the process is to make sure that the device is effective and safe, and it takes a long time," Mr Thompson said. EASY STEPS: How to keep safe A SIMPLE GUIDE: What are the symptoms? GETTING READY: What's the UK's plan? TRAVEL PLANS: What are your rights? IN-DEPTH: Coronavirus pandemic And even an expedited procedure would probably still take too long. "The NHS is looking for a solution for this crisis in the next six to eight weeks," he said. "The only way you can make that requirement would be to source them from existing factories, so definitely not from the UK." Make UK was more optimistic and suggested such a regulatory impasse could be overcome if there was enough political pressure. But it too warned making the kinds of numbers of ventilators the NHS needed may not be possible in the timescale desired. "You could end up with some components taking 20 weeks to deliver," said Mr Phipson. "We need to go through the detail and work out what is possible. We should have a clearer picture by the end of the week." Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Ventilators Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Coronavirus: Plan to ramp up ventilator production 'unrealistic' 16 March 2020 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.