https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-25726521
Nest - a 'crazy idea' at a crazy price? - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Nest - a 'crazy idea' at a crazy price? Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 14 January 2014 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-25726521 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Getty Images What kind of business could you buy for $3.2bn - or about £2bn? Well, in the UK you could pick up the construction giant Balfour Beatty, which employs more than 10,000 people, or the only remaining High Street electronics chain Dixons, with a workforce of more than 30,000. Or, if you are Google, that is what you can pay for a tiny connected home business employing just 300 people. Nest is certainly a clever company, founded by two former Apple executives, Tony Fadell and Matt Rogers. But its first product, a smart "learning" thermostat which allows you to control the heating from your smartphone, only went on sale two years ago and is only available in the US and Canada. Now we've got used to crazy price tags on web start-ups - remember the $3bn Snapchat is supposed to have turned down from Facebook? But fast-growing software businesses can go global very quickly, turning huge audiences into lucrative advertising properties, Nest, on the other hand, is a hardware business, and its struggle to adapt its thermostat for a UK launch - "be patient, it'll come," says Tony Fadell - shows that global growth poses different challenges for that kind of firm. Yes, the Nest looks lovely, its design showing the Apple flair of its creators. And the smart energy market is poised for rapid growth, with lots of companies piling in as I wrote a couple of months ago. But I put it to Fadell when I caught up with him on the phone last night that his thermostat was a niche product, appealing to a limited audience, and he'd struggle to justify the $3.2bn price tag: "I beg to differ," he told me. "People are buying it because of the cost savings they see." And he went on when I suggested that Google was still paying a huge multiple of Nest earnings, "our revenues might be higher than you think..." Our Nest privacy policy clearly limits the use of the customer information we gather to improving Nest's products and services Tony Fadell In a 10-minute chat we covered a lot of ground. Google's Sergey Brin had first been shown a prototype of the Nest in 2011, many of the firm's executives had installed it in their homes and the relationship had turned into merger talk last summer. "They've always been keen on what we were doing because they thought we had a crazy idea and they love crazy ideas," says Fadell. I asked him what plans Google now had for new products. He said CEO Larry Page had just told a Nest staff meeting, "you guys already had a great vision. We believe in your vision of the roadmap that we've seen - just do it with all the Google resources behind you and hopefully make it happen faster." But what about privacy? Would Nest customers be happy that Google now knew what time they were leaving their homes? "Our Nest privacy policy clearly limits the use of the customer information we gather to improving Nest's products and services," says Fadell. "The terms of service are not going to change." But more interestingly he went on: "Already there's all kinds of things that Apple and Google collect from your smartphone. They already know a lot more about you than we actually do." Now Google, which is making its way into connected cars, has just bought a clutch of robotics companies and whose Glass product will deliver lots more data about its users, is entering the connected home market. So, $3.2bn might sound a lot of money - but to the search giant which generates about $15bn in revenues every quarter it is small change. And of course, a chance to put one over on Apple, moving into a territory where the Cupertino firm must have its own ambitions by snapping up a firm founded by former executives, must have made it even more attractive. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.