https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16704461
Apple loses appeal over Galaxy Tab 10.1 in Dutch court - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Apple loses appeal over Galaxy Tab 10.1 in Dutch court 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16704461 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption The judges ruled that Samsung's device (right) did not infringe a narrow definition of Apple's rights A Dutch appeals court has rejected Apple's claim that Samsung's Galaxy Tab 10.1 infringes its design rights. It follows a ruling last year in which a judge threw out Apple's call for an injunction against its rival's tablet in the Netherlands. This latest decision comes a week before a German appeals court is set to rule on a design right-related injunction granted in the country. EU courts may reach different conclusions, but must explain why. The latest rulinghas been posted in Dutchon the web. It explains that the Hague-based judges noted that the backs and sides of Samsung's tablet differed from the iPad's, and that the two firm's models differed in thickness - allowing informed users to distinguish between the companies' devices. It said Apple had sought a wide definition of its design rights, based in part on the idea that its model looked like a "mirror-smooth lake" onto which an image appeared. However, the Dutch court ruled that Apple could only claim a narrower definition since the "characteristic elements" of its design had previously appeared other works including a1994 concept videoproduced by the Knight Ridder newspaper group and a2004 US patentfiled in the name of inventor Helmers Ozolins. Patent consultantFlorian Mueller's bloghighlights that in December a California-based judge had used similar grounds to reject an effort by Apple to seek a design patent related injunction against Samsung in the US. Stand-off Samsung told the BBC that it welcomed the latest judgement. "This ruling again demonstrates that Apple's products simply do not warrant the intellectual property protections that it believes," a spokeswoman said. "Samsung will continue to take all appropriate measures, including legal action, to ensure continued consumer access to our innovative products." Apple said it had nothing specific to say about the ruling. However, it referred the BBC to a previous statement which said: "It's no coincidence that Samsung's latest products look a lot like the iPhone and iPad... This kind of blatant copying is wrong and, as we've said many times before, we need to protect Apple's intellectual property when companies steal our ideas." Dusseldorf Higher Regional Court is likely to consider the latest ruling when it considers Samsung's appeal against a German sales ban imposed on the Galaxy Tab 10.1 last August. The South Korean firm redesigned its tablet and in November released a new model, the Galaxy Tab 10.1N. Apple is also seeking to ban the newer model. A ruling is scheduled to be given in early February. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Motorola wins Apple wireless patent fight in Germany 8 March 2012 Australia lifts Samsung sales ban 9 December 2011 Samsung redesigns tablet computer 17 November 2011 Related Internet links Samsung Apple Foss Patents The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.