https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-22508667
Pictures from Raspberry Pi's new camera add-on - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Pictures from Raspberry Pi's new camera add-on Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 14 May 2013 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-22508667 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel At first sight, it must be just about the most useless camera you can possibly imagine. To take a picture you have to somehow hold it in one hand while typing a line of code with another and pressing return. The device in question is an accessory for the Raspberry Pi, the cheap barebones computer aimed at getting children coding. And, on reflection, the sheer nightmarish complexity of making it work may be exactly the point. The camera, which I've been testing for a couple of days, is all of a piece with the Raspberry Pi aesthetic - a tiny lens on a chip smaller than a postage stamp. The accessory, released today, is like the Pi itself in that it makes few concessions to modern expectations of consumer products that you plug 'n' play. You connect it to a port on the Pi and start working out what to do next because it's not as if there's a button on it to press to take a picture, or even a pre-installed programme on the Pi desktop to operate the camera. Image caption Dads can be so embarrassing In my case, I emailed a few people in the Raspberry Pi community and got a list of instructions. You need to connect your mini computer to a monitor, start it up, then open a terminal window and type in this command: /opt/vc/bin/raspicam -o mypicture.jpg A window opens on the monitor showing what the camera is seeing and, after what seems a random number of seconds, a picture is taken. Next, you have to work out where that picture - or video because another command allows you to record moving pictures - is stored. Then you have to work out how to get these files off the Raspberry Pi to somewhere you can edit or distribute them. After a certain amount of cursing - and further consultation with a friendly Raspberry Pi guru - I managed to achieve this, saving a few pictures of myself, the dog and a somewhat reluctant 14-year-old son. After what seems a random number of seconds, a picture is taken None of my Raspberry Pi photos were up to much and I won't be entering the Pi photography competition that has been launched to celebrate the arrival of the camera. (By the way, once you have got to grips with the various commands, you can do all sorts of clever things with the camera, from an "old master" effect, to black and white or negative shots.) But I still found the whole lengthy process rather satisfying. Instead of turning a camera on and pressing a button, I'd been forced to think about the software behind digital photography and muddle my way through. And that is why Raspberry Pi is such an interesting and challenging idea. It forces you to explore how computers work and in that process learn some useful skills. As someone who is anything but a digital native, I find this stuff hard. Hopefully it will be a lot easier for those at whom this is aimed. Image caption Cute... but not likely to win any photography awards In my view, the packaging and presentation of the Pi have been just a little too challenging so far for many of the target audience: children, their parents and teachers. Once they've assembled the necessary peripherals - a monitor, a mouse, a keyboard, cables - and got the thing booted, it is probably unclear to many what on earth they are supposed to do next. But this is why the camera is such a useful addition to the project. It may be difficult to get your head around at first but you end up with an output that everyone can understand - photos or videos. A couple of months ago, I helped judge a competition for schools finding imaginative uses for the Raspberry Pi. There was a lot of ingenuity on display and, now that there's a camera for them to play with, I'm expecting to see a lot more clever Raspberry-flavoured ideas emerging from Britain's classrooms. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.