https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-19979380
Nissan steer-by-wire cars set for showrooms by 2013 - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Nissan steer-by-wire cars set for showrooms by 2013 17 October 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-19979380 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Steer-by-wire uses electrical signals and software to control a car's tyres Nissan plans to sell cars controlled by steer-by-wire technology within a year. The innovation works by sending electronic signals from the steering wheel to a computerised unit that then controls the movement of the tyres, rather than using mechanical links. The tech is commonly used in aeroplanes, but the Japanese firm said it would be the first to apply it to mass-produced cars. However, it might need to overcome motorists' safety concerns. Although the vehicles would still be controlled by a human, one analyst said the development could eventually be incorporated into driverless cars. Controlled feedback Nissan said that users would benefit from an improved driving experience since their intentions would be transmitted to the wheels faster than by using a hydraulic and mechanical system. In addition it suggested that the development would "insulate" motorists from disturbances caused by unnecessary feedback. "For example, even on a road surface with minor ridges or furrows, the driver no longer has to grip the steering wheel tightly and make detailed adjustments, so travelling on the intended path becomes easier," it said in a statement. Some car buyers may be wary about the idea of putting their lives in the hands of a computer system after other related efforts proved problematic. In 2004 Mercedes-Benz faced customers complaints that its Sensotronic brake-by-wire system - which used an electrical link to control vehicles' brake pads - sometimes failed. Although the vehicles had a hydraulic back-up it meant some owners had experienced longer stopping distances. The firm ultimately recalled about two million vehicles and dropped the feature. More recently Toyota had to ask Prius owners to take their cars into garages to install a software update after reports some models had suffered from "inconsistent brake feel". Image caption Nissan said its Infiniti-branded vehicles would be first to be fitted with steer-by-wire technology Nissan appears to have borne these issues in mind by deciding to install a back-up clutch system in its steer-by-wire vehicles, to link up their steering wheels and tyres in the event of a problem. However, it signalled it hoped to be able to ditch the safety measure in the long term. "If we are freed from that, we would be able to place the steering wheel wherever we like," said Masaharu Satou, a Nissan engineer. "Such as in the back seat, or it would be possible to steer the car with a joystick." For the time being the addition of the clutch system adds back weight to the vehicles, undermining another potential benefit of the technology - better fuel efficiency. Driverless cars Jay Nagley, managing director of the Redspy auto consultancy, said he thought the development would catch on. "I think initially people will find it a bit spooky but will be reassured by the fact there is a mechanical back-up if required," he told the BBC. "But over time I'm sure people will get used to it as its part of the bigger picture of self-driving cars where drivers don't have to be in control at all times." Volkswagen has already tested drive-by-wire technology in a modified version of its Passat model that has driven itself along Berlin's roads. Volvo has also incorporated the facility in tests of its self-drive "road train" concept, which involves a convoy of cars using drive-by-wire tech to mimic the actions of a lead vehicle. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Volvo's self-drive 'convoy' hits the Spanish motorway 29 May 2012 Four more Toyota models recalled 9 February 2010 Automatic cars 'slash journey times' 20 May 2008 Related Internet links Nissan Mercedes-Benz Redspy The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.