https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26786593
Google says government requests 'up 120%' in four years - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Google says government requests 'up 120%' in four years 28 March 2014 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26786593 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Technology firms like Google are pushing to be allowed to release more data on government requests Google has said the number of requests it has had from governments to share information about its users has gone up by 120% in the past four years. The rise was blamed on an increase in users, but the company also said more governments were starting to "exercise their authority to make requests". In releasing the data the search giant renewed its calls for government surveillance reform. Last year, 53,356 requests for data were made globally, Google said. The majority of requests come from the US - but the figures do not include bulk surveillance carried out by the country's National Security Agency (NSA). Google has been publishing the twice-yearly Transparency Report since 2009. Transparency push Not all requests Google receives are successful. In the period of July to December 2013, 69% of the UK government's 1,397 requests resulted in user information being passed over. In the US, 83% of 10,574 requests were granted. "We consistently push back against overly broad requests for your personal information," wrote Richard Salgado, Google's legal director. "But it's also important for laws to explicitly protect you from government overreach. Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionEdward Snowden: Surveillance is 'setting fire' to the internet "That's why we're working alongside eight other companies to push for surveillance reform, including more transparency." Following revelations from whistleblower Edward Snowden into US spying - technology companies have been pressing for more openness in the activities of governments. Google has joined some of the sector's big hitters - including Facebook, Microsoft and Twitter - in pushing for the right to publish data into national security requests as well demands made for law enforcement purposes. Journalists targeted In a separate publication on Friday, two Google engineers revealed the extent of state-sponsored hacking attempts on journalists and news organisations. The engineers suggested that 21 of the top 25 news organisations in the world had been targeted - and that while general users face such attacks, journalists were "massively over-represented" in the study's data. Shane Huntley and Morgan Marquis-Boire presented their findings at the Black Hat security conference in Singapore. Mr Huntley told Reuters: "If you're a journalist or a journalistic organisation we will see state-sponsored targeting and we see it happening regardless of region, we see it from all over the world both from where the targets are and where the targets are from." He added that Chinese hackers had accessed a US news organisation - which was not named - by sending out a fake questionnaire to staff. Related Topics Google Cyber-security Internet National Security Agency Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Technology firms seek government surveillance reform 9 December 2013 Snowden: Surveillance is 'setting fire' to the internet 10 March 2014 Spies would be foolish to ignore bulk email data - Rifkind 9 December 2013 Apple reveals government data requests 6 November 2013 Privacy group demands spy details from telecom firms 5 November 2013 Snowden leaks: Google 'outraged' at alleged NSA hacking 31 October 2013 Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.