https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-27536599
Building a virtual human with your data - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Building a virtual human with your data Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 23 May 2014 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-27536599 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionRory Cellan-Jones checks out how a virtual heart can be used with Dr Paul Morris Nowadays, just about any designer or engineer working on a new car, an aircraft or a suspension bridge will begin with a computer model. Whether it is examining airflows over a wing or the impact of thousands of vehicles on a road, the process will start in the virtual world. But when it comes to medicine and working out the impact of treatment or a new drug, then doctors still reach for a stethoscope not a mouse. That, however, may be about to change - as I discovered in Sheffield this week. At Sheffield University's Insigneo Institute, academics and doctors have set out on a mission to build a virtual human being, a software replica of every aspect of the body. The idea is to move healthcare onto a new more advanced level with something called In Silico medicine. What's that? "It's the use of sophisticated computer simulation to improve healthcare, diagnosis and treatment," Dr Keith McCormack explained to me on a tour of the institute, where he is the business development director. "It's surprising that medicine has been the last major human activity to succumb to this, but now it's here and it promises to revolutionise healthcare." We wandered from room to room, finding researchers in front of screens working on a variety of projects. One was modelling the female pelvic floor to examine the stresses involved in childbirth, another was building a complex model of the human spine to help doctors treating back pain. "Lower back pain is extremely difficult to treat," explained Dr McCormack. "What we're hoping to do is illuminate that process for any clinician so that they can examine in the computer the various treatment alternatives, and project them forward in time to see how they would have improved the patient's condition." Image copyright Insigneo Our next stop was Sheffield's Northern General hospital where we found another example of this multi-faceted project. In a cardiac catheter lab, Dr Paul Morris showed me his Virtu Heart software, designed to help in the treatment of coronary artery disease. Right now, doctors look at angiograms when deciding on treatment, but they give just a black and white two dimensional picture: "Our research is turning these angiograms into three dimensional models which simulate what goes on inside the coronary artery," Dr Morris explained. "We know that if doctors use this to improve patient care, then it produces better outcomes. It will save money and allow us to make better decisions." The Sheffield doctors and academics have got substantial EU funding, but building the virtual human will take a long time and at the heart of the project is the need to collect a lot of data. "I can't stress how important this is," says Dr McCormack. "Of course, to treat individual patients we need their personal data but to build our models in the first place we need comprehensive information from as wide a patient base as possible." He stresses that this information will be in anonymised form, but accepts that the current concern about the security of patient information is an issue. "There should be a lively public debate about this," he says, "but our view in the In Silico medicine world is that there is little downside to this. The benefits are so enormous, our technology will leap ahead if we can have access to anonymised patient data." Big claims are being made for "big data" - and privacy campaigners are raising all sorts of red flags about what companies might do with it. But the medical world believes that the computer-based revolution in healthcare will not make much progress unless we all agree to feed our data into the researchers' models. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.