https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-52017451
Coronavirus: Mobile networks send 'stay at home' text - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Coronavirus: Mobile networks send 'stay at home' text Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 24 March 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-52017451 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic For the first time, all the UK's mobile networks are sending out a government message to their customers with details of the new shutdown measures. The text reads: GOV.UK CORONAVIRUS ALERT. New rules in force now: you must stay at home. More info and exemptions at gov.uk/coronavirus Stay at home. Protect the NHS. Save lives. Some customers have already received the message, while others are set to get it later in the day. The network O2 told the BBC it was sending the texts in batches adding it could take until 22:00GMT to complete the task. The government has had to work with the operators to get the message sent because an emergency alert system, trialled seven years ago, was never put into practice. If it had been, the government could have bypassed the operators and sent messages directly to phone users, as has happened in countries such as South Korea and the Netherlands. Such a service would have allowed the government to bypass the mobile networks and send messages directly to all of the UK's mobile phones. The trials run by the Cabinet Office in 2014 were apparently successful, with three mobile operators testing the broadcast of text messages in a defined area. The final report on the trials said the idea had proved popular with focus groups and other members of the public surveyed about it. It concluded that "the system would be an effective way of getting people to take specific protective action during an emergency". Image caption Some subscribers have already received the text message The report also suggested it would be possible to send alerts to the public within 15 minutes of making a decision. It is not clear why the system was not then put into practice, although one operator told the BBC that cost might have been an issue. LIVE: Latest updates A SIMPLE GUIDE: What are the symptoms? AVOIDING CONTACT: Should I self-isolate? LOOK-UP TOOL: Check cases in your area MAPS AND CHARTS: Visual guide to the outbreak While the link in the government text is safe to click, the public is being warned to be cautious about other unsolicited coronavirus messages they receive. The UK's National Cyber Security Centre has warned that criminals have ramped up bogus email campaigns that aim to trick users into clicking links that can lead to their computers being infected or seek to fool the recipients into divulging sensitive information. It has cautioned that people should also be wary of opening attachments unless they know the sender. Security firms have also warned that some scammers have sent out bogus SMS messages. "These SMS spam attacks attempt to use the fear around the coronavirus worldwide emergency to try to push their targets to respond to the SMS spam, and so monetise (make money from) the attack," wrote AdaptiveMobile Security on its blog. The issue poses a challenge to the government if it intends to continue using text alerts as a means to communicate its advice. Related Topics Self-isolation Coronavirus pandemic Shielding Mobile phones UK government Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story UK coronavirus app 'must respect privacy rights' 23 March 2020 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.