https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17700824
Apple releases tool to combat Flashback malware - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Apple releases tool to combat Flashback malware 13 April 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17700824 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Apple says the tool removes "the most common variants" of the malware Apple has released a fresh Java update that it says removes the Flashback Trojan on infected Macintosh computers. The malware installs itself if a user visits a malicious website, exposing the computer to control by hackers. The update's release comes two days after Apple said it was tackling the issue, and a week after an anti-virus firm warned 600,000 Macs were infected. Another security firm, Kaspersky, has recalled its own Trojan-removal tool after it affected some user settings. The company said its tool was removing settings on the computers it was being installed on, and promised to offer a replacement shortly. 'Slow reaction' Apple, on the other hand, states on its website's support section that its new removal tool gets rid of "the most common variants" of the malware. The tool is integrated into the latest security update to Java on Apple computers running Mac OS X 10.6 and 10.7 ("Snow Leopard" and "Lion"). Users of infected machines running earlier versions of the operating system are told to disable Java in their web browser preferences to deal with the problem. Earlier, Apple also said it was working with ISPs to shut down networks of servers hosted by the malware authors, which the code relies on "to perform many of its critical functions". However, Apple has been criticised for the time it took to react to the Trojan infection. Stealing data MacOS is increasingly attractive and increasingly exploited by criminals Rik Ferguson, Trend Micro It is suspected that Flashback was designed to steal passwords and other personal data from users through their web browser. Russian anti-virus firm Dr Web estimated on 6 April that some 600,000 Macs around the world had contracted the malware. But security company Norton stated that the number of infected computers had since fallen to 270,000. Several firms released their own Flashback removal tools ahead of Apple's latest security update. However, Kaspersky Lab issued a statement after discovering problems with its software. "In some cases it is possible that the use of the tool could result in erroneous removal of certain user settings including auto-start configurations, user configurations in browsers, and file sharing data," the firm's spokesperson Greg Sabey said in an email to the press. "The company will release an updated version of the utility with the bug corrected and will send a notification as soon as it's available." Some analysts say Apple could have avoided the attack if it had tackled the problem sooner. Java's developer Oracle had issued a fix for other systems eight weeks before Apple's first security update. Rik Ferguson, director of security research and communication at Trend Micro, said: "Security updates issued by Apple are issued too slowly and not on any regular schedule. "Apple's sluggishness on security updates could perhaps have been defended in the past by the relative paucity of malware on that operating system. However, MacOS is increasingly attractive and increasingly exploited by criminals." Apple also appears to be trying to improve safety for its online store iTunes, possibly addressing the growing number of complaints about some accounts being hacked. Users are being prompted to add back-up email addresses and answer security questions to protect their accounts and devices. Apple has not commented on the move, which initially confused some of its users . Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Half a million Mac computers 'infected with malware' 5 April 2012 Apple develops tool to 'detect and remove' Flashback Trojan 11 April 2012 Related Internet links About Java for OS X Lion 2012-003 Kaspersky Lab Dr Web Trend Micro UK - Securing Your Journey to the Cloud. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.