https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16960676
Microsoft and Cisco back Apple's essential patents call - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Microsoft and Cisco back Apple's essential patents call 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16960676 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Microsoft has forced some Android handset makers to pay it for the use of some of its patents Microsoft has pledged not to block rivals' products if they infringe patents it owns which are deemed "essential" to an industry standard. Such patents cover intellectual property rights without which widely used formats - such as MP3 sound files or JPEG photos - could not work. Microsoft's action follows aleaked Apple letter. The iPhone-maker wrote to European officials saying that all tech firms should sign up to a similar commitment. The moves put the firms at odds with recent acts by Motorola Mobility and Samsung. Microsoft lawyer David Heinerwrote in a blogthat the internet only worked because firms had agreed to license their inventions to each other. "Would you buy a smartphone, an iPad or a personal computer that couldn't play video or connect to wireless networks?" he asked. "Probably not. This is why antitrust enforcers have taken a keen interest recently in patent acquisitions and attempts by patent holders to block competitors from shipping products that implement industry standards." The European Commission is investigating whether Samsung distorted competition in the mobile device market by failing to license key technologies to rivals because of payment disputes. The firm attempted to sue Apple last year, but a Dutch court threw out its claim as being too expensive. Microsoft and Apple's call has also received backing from the networking equipment maker Cisco Systems. The Foss patents blogpublished a letter from the firmon Wednesday in which it called on the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) to adopt the proposals set out in Apple's letter. 'Extreme position' The move may also put pressure on Google, which is in the process of taking over Motorola Mobility. Last week Motorola temporarily blocked several iPads and iPhones from sale in Apple's German online store after winning a lawsuit based on essential patents. A letter written by Google lawyer Allen Lo promised that it wouldcontinue to license Motorola's essential patentsafter its acquisition. However, he signalled that the search giant was likely to continue a policy of demanding "a maximum per-unit royalty of 2.25% of the net selling price for the relevant end product". Florian Mueller,author of the Foss Patents blogwho does consultancy work for Microsoft, wrote that "2.25% of the whole selling price is absolutely out of step with the concept of Frand (essential patents) and with industry practices". He noted that if a BMW car was to use one of Motorola's "essential" licences, the phone-maker could potentially demand thousands of pounds from each sale. "It looks to me like Google is taking an extreme position now so it can easily make concessions going forward." Counter-attacks However, Andrew Alton, a lawyer at the law firm UDL Intellectual Property, took issue with this analysis. "Google's letter seems to make clear that they consider 'relevant end products' to be handsets and tablets - the key word here is 'relevant' and it seems far fetched that Google would intend that to cover other products like cars," he told the BBC. Another London-based patent lawyer, who asked not to be named since his company acts for several of the firms involved, added that it would be difficult to get every technology firm to sign up to a rule change on essential patents. He said some firms would be unwilling to do that as they would lose a means to counter-attack Microsoft and Apple lawsuits involving non-essential patents. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Apple seeks change to 'essential' patent licence rules 8 March 2012 Apple overturns Motorola's iPad and iPhone sales bans 8 March 2012 ITC judge: Motorola Mobility infringed Microsoft patent 8 March 2012 Related Internet links Microsoft Apple Samsung Motorola Mobility Foss Patents UDL Intellectual Property UDL Intellectual Property The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.