https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-20497719
Nokia Maps digitises streets to battle Google's threat - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Nokia Maps digitises streets to battle Google's threat By Leo Kelion Technology reporter 5 December 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-20497719 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Nokia is combining data gathered by lasers and cameras to make interactive 3D images of cities Nokia smells an opportunity. Maps have become one of the most closely-watched battlegrounds in tech after a user-backlash led Apple to apologise for the quality of its iOS6 Maps update. The Finnish firm quickly capitalised by beating Google to the release of an app in Apple's iPhone and iPad store. Giving away a product that cost millions of dollars to create to owners of a rival's products might seem like an odd business decision, but behind it lies a critical point. If Nokia's 25-year-old mapping business is to survive the evolution from dedicated sat-nav systems to smart devices it needs to secure as much feedback data as it can. That means attempting to woo smartphone and tablet users with a series of innovations. Image caption The Here app uses data sent from smartphones to mark traffic in red Clear directions You can already see a hint of the importance of feedback data in the colour codes Nokia uses to show which streets are suffering from busy traffic. It does this by taking anonymised GPS and movement readings from users' phones and other Nokia-powered sat-nav systems to work out road conditions. Its upcoming Living Maps feature aims to take this a step further by colour-coding areas according to each user's leisure tastes. "As people use their devices we can see for example where searches are done or where people are tweeting with their friends about a restaurant or a nightclub," Cliff Fox, Nokia's Chicago-based senior vice president of location content tells the BBC. "So we are able to generate heat maps that show areas of activity that might be interesting. "If you are out of town and visiting Chicago and don't know which good areas nightclubs might be in, you can bring up a heat map and see these kind of active areas." How Nokia's maps got from A to B The unit traces its roots to Barry Karlin, a South African immigrant to Silicon Valley who had the idea of a computer mapping solution after becoming lost while driving in the area in 1984 and finding the large map he owned unwieldy to use. In 1987 he launched DriverGuide - a printed door-to-door driving guide sold from kiosks which was targeted at rental car drivers in San Francisco. Over the following years the company changed its name first to Navtech, then Navteq and for a time came under the control of Philips. But after research costs mounted, the Dutch company decided go in a different direction and by 2004 the business had been floated on the New York Stock Exchange with a valuation of about $2bn (£1.2bn). Its public status proved to be short-lived when Nokia announced it wanted to acquire the firm in 2007. It paid $8.1bn for the privilege the following year. The more devices use Nokia's location products the better the service should be. The firm already powers the default map apps on Windows Phone handsets, Windows 8 computers and Amazon's Kindle tablets. And beyond Apple's devices it also has its eye on the Android ecosystem with a toolset for third-party developers to tap into its data. Drive-by sensors Nokia is also investing in a fleet of True cars to help face off the challenge posed by Google's more famous Street View vehicles. The True cars are fitted with a range of sensors including high-precision cameras and an inertial measurement unit which measures the slope of each road - a feature which could allow trucking companies to identify the least hilly routes in order to cut fuel costs. But the critical feature is a rotating sensor called Lidar (light detection and ranging) which uses 64 lasers to capture 1.3 million points of digital information every second of each vehicle's journey. "The lasers bounce off any reflective surface that allows us to capture lane markings [which use reflective paint], it shows us the exact location of road signs and it also allows us to capture the world in 3D," explains Mr Fox. "That's the primary purpose... we are able to create at street-level a digital representation of the real world." Image caption Nokia's True cars feature a fast-spinning device at their rear which sends out laser beams to the surrounding area While Google's Street View offers panoramic photos, Nokia intends to offer a computer-created graphics-based version of the planet by combining Lidar-collected data with colour information gathered by panoramic cameras. The advantage, Mr Fox suggests, is that Nokia can offer a highly-detailed depiction of the environment to pedestrians, but a less distracting version to motorists. "It will also allow you to blank out part of the buildings or make some of the buildings opaque if your destination is behind several buildings," he adds. Image caption The Lidar data from a True car - represented in blue - is used to make graphics of buildings and street markings The firm has been operating 45 True cars in the US and Western Europe - including the UK - for a year-and-a-half and plans to increase that number to 200 next year. In addition it is in the process of taking over Earthmine - another company operating vehicles that create street-level graphical views - which will further boost its fleet. But it's not all about eye-candy. Another use of its data is intended to make it unnecessary for Nokia map users to look at their screens at all. Called Natural Guidance the facility aims to give the kind of voice-directions a knowledgeable friend would offer rather than what's currently provided by turn-by-turn systems. Instead of saying, for example, "turn left in 100 metres" it will say turn after the church, or once you've crossed over the bridge, explains Mr Fox. Nokia Maps in numbers Nokia paid $8.1bn for Navteq in 2007 Nokia's current market valuation is $13.3bn 190 countries are covered by the firm's maps data It provides turn-by-turn directions in "just over" 100 countries It takes 2GB to store a downloaded map of the US for offline viewing 2.4 million map changes are made a day on average 6,366 people are employed by Nokia's location division Three processing centres - located in India, Mexico and US - handle data submitted by "thousands" of map workers on the ground More than 300 data-collecting vehicles are used, 45 of which are fitted with Lidar laser technology 13 billion data readings are provided a month from users' smartphones, sat-navs and other devices "Consumers have a lot of difficulty processing distances visually," he says. "We believe this reduces stress." Google's challenge Tellingly when the product launches next year it will be one of the firm's partners who gets it before Nokia's own devices. Because as upbeat as Mr Fox sounds, Nokia's mapping division needs to do all that it can turn a profit. Historically it earned much of its revenue by licensing its Navteq maps to sat-nav device makers like Garmin. But sales of such standalone devices are plummeting and Nokia's location unit posted a 6% year-on-year drop in sales as a consequence. The figure would have been much worse had the fall not been partially offset by a rise in demand from vehicle manufacturers. Nokia boasts that four out of five cars fitted with in-built sat-nav systems use its technology, but even this market is not safe. "Google is clearly the the formidable competitor in the long-term for us," Mr Fox acknowledges. "They are making enormous investments and they're trying to upgrade the quality of their data so that it could be viewed by car manufacturers as being navigation-grade maps." The search giant is also known to be experimenting with Lidar technology and its mapping chief Brian McClendon recently told the BBC he had his own ambition to "get all of the pixels of the world in three dimensions and allow you to visit them". Image caption Information taken by panoramic cameras is combined with the Lidar data to create street-level coloured graphics Industry watchers also expect Apple, TomTom and others will not give up without a fight. "We don't know yet who the winner will be," says tech consultant Carolina Milanesi from Gartner. "It's still early days and most consumers still think maps equals navigation. But consumers will decide they prefer one because it offers a better level of detail, number of relevant points of interest and 3D-view facilities. "On smartphones most people thought maps meant Google, but they're now realising you can choose." Over the coming years mapping looks set to be tech's equivalent of an arms race with huge amounts of money spent to come out on top. But with the prospect of ever-more powerful phones, augmented reality glasses and even driverless cars, whoever has the most accurate and good-looking maps could find themselves well placed to reap huge rewards. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Nokia to offer free maps app and service for rival handsets 14 November 2012 Apple apologises for Maps switch 'frustration' 28 September 2012 Google Maps uses Ground Truth project to battle Apple 10 September 2012 Related Internet links Nokia Here Google Maps TomTom Apple Maps Earthmine Gartner The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.