https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16409081
Google adds IBM patents as it looks to future - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Google adds IBM patents as it looks to future 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16409081 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Google's patent shopping bill has so far run into billions of dollars Google has gained hundreds of patents from IBM as it continues its intellectual property spending spree. It has acquired 187 patents and 36 applications, adding to the 1,000 it purchased from IBM last summer. The latest patents include a system for "using semantic networks to develop a social network". Google has spent billions building its technology rights portfolio, including a $12.5bn (£7.7bn) deal for Motorola Mobility. The California-based company has been actively bolstering its patent catalogue in the face of lawsuits from key competitors such as Apple and Microsoft. Among the patents acquired in this latest deal isUS Patent 7,865,592which relates specifically to social networking sites, allowing "identifying common interests between users of a communication network". Vicki Salmon, the chair of the litigation committee of the UK Chartered Institute of Patent Attorneys, believed this might be a nod that Google was moving from protecting existing technology and beginning to plan for the future. "When you start you have to play catch-up," she told the BBC. "When you've finished playing catch-up and you've got yourself in a stronger position, you then can begin to look forward." Other patents included a method forusing web-based applications across additional devices, and an intriguingly titledcomputer phone. Neither Google nor IBM would comment on the deal when approached by the BBC. 'Get real' Last year, Google accused its competitors of buying up what it called "bogus patents" in order to slow the development of its Android operating system. However, the company now appears to have succumbed to the same approach as it adds the IBM patents to a portfolio that also includestechnology for driverless cars. I think they've realised that they just had to get real, and understand that you can't just ignore the system Piers Strickland, Patent lawyer "Although you can object to a lot of cost of inconvenience by virtue of people enforcing their patents, the patent system still exists," Piers Strickland, a lawyer specialising in mobile telephone patent litigation, told the BBC "In order to engage with that you've either got to take licences from from people's patents, and/or aggressively increase your bartering position by buying patents. "I think they've realised that they just had to get real, and understand that you can't just ignore the system." Google's agreement to buy Motorola Mobility,announced in August last year, includes 24,500 patents, many of which could be used to defend the use of features on its Android mobile operating system. The purchase is currently beingreviewed by competition regulators. 'Turf war' Google's Motorola move came off the back oflosing out on buying the 6,000-strong patent portfolioof bankrupt telecoms firm Nortel. It was outbid by a consortium of companies including Apple, Microsoft and Blackberry manufacturer Research in Motion. "The reality is that you've got a fairly vicious turf war going on between the different operating systems," explained Ms Salmon. "People want to be in there, and they want their platform established and people to be using them." Google is just one of many technology companies involved in patent lawsuits which seek to slow down competition or strike lucrative licensing fee settlements. On Wednesday, US mobile operator AT&T was forced to pay Tivo - the digital video recorder specialist - $215m plus additional undisclosed monthly licensing fees. The fee will vary depending on AT&T meeting growth targets for digital video recording customers until 2018. "No matter which projections you take, they all involve AT&T paying us significantly higher revenue than $215m," Tivo chief executive Tim Rogers said. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Google's Motorola Mobility takeover: EU delays ruling 8 March 2012 Motorola sued over mobile patents 7 October 2011 Google hits out at patent attack 4 August 2011 Related Internet links Google IBM Tivo The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.