https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16157883
FBI says hackers hit key services in three US cities - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology FBI says hackers hit key services in three US cities 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16157883 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Hackers could, in theory, have turned off the lights on shoppers The infrastructure systems of three US cities have been attacked, according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. At a recent cybersecurity conference, Michael Welch, deputy assistant director of the FBI's cyber division, said hackers had accessed crucial water and power services. The hackers could theoretically have dumped sewage into a lake or shut off the power to a shopping mall, he said. Industrial control systems are becoming an increasing target for hackers. 'Ego trip' "We just had a circumstance where we had three cities, one of them a major city within the US, where you had several hackers that had made their way into Scada systems within the city," Mr Welch told delegates at the Flemings Cyber Security conference. "Essentially it was an ego trip for the hacker because he had control of that city's system and he could dump raw sewage into the lake, he could shut down the power plant at the mall - a wide array of things," he added. Such systems - commonly known as Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (Scada) - are increasingly being targeted by hackers, following reports that they rely on weak security. It follows two alleged break-ins to city water supplies. The first, to a water supply in Springfield, Illinois, was later played down by the FBI which said it could find no evidence of cyber-intrusion. Initially it had thought a hardware fault was caused by Russian hackers but it later emerged that this was not the case. In another attack a hacker named pr0f claimed to have broken into a control system that kept water supplied to a town in Texas. The hacker said the system had only been protected by a three-character password which "required almost no skill" to get around. Mr Welch did not confirm whether this breach was one of the three he was talking about. Default passwords Security experts predict there will be a rise in such attacks. "Such systems have become a target partly because of all the chatter about the lack of security. Hackers are doing it out of curiosity to see how poorly they are protected," said Graham Cluley, senior security consultant at Sophos. He said that many relied on default passwords, and information about some of these passwords was "available for download online". Furthermore the firms that run Scada systems, such as Siemens, often advise against changing passwords because they claim the threat from malware is not a great as the problem that will be caused if passwords are changed. "Not changing passwords is obviously slightly crazy. Proper security needs to be in place otherwise it is laughable," said Mr Cluley. 24-hour surveillance Industrial-scale hacking hit the headlines in 2010with news of a worm aimed at Iran's nuclear facilities. Stuxnet was widely rumoured to have been developed by either the US or Israeli authorities and, according to experts, was configured to damage motors used in uranium-enrichment centrifuges by sending them spinning out of control. Iran later admitted that some of its centrifuges had been sabotaged although it downplayed the significance of Stuxnet in that. This year a Stuxnet copycat, Duqu, was discovered by security experts. Initial analysis of the worm found that parts of Duqu are nearly identical to Stuxnet and suggested that it was written by either the same authors or those with access to the Stuxnet source code. Unlike Stuxnet it was not designed to attack industrial systems but rather to gather intelligence for a future attack. Mr Welch also revealed at the conference that, to date, the FBI's cyberteam had worked a 9 to 5 day. He said that a 12% increase in its budget would mean the team could now expand and begin monitoring cyberthreats around the clock. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story FBI downplays water supply 'hack' 23 November 2011 Oil cyber-attacks could cost lives, Shell warns 8 March 2012 Iran says Duqu hack 'controlled' 14 November 2011 Related Internet links Naked Security blog FBI cyber crime The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.