https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-35639233
Bill Gates calls for terror data debate - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Bill Gates calls for terror data debate 23 February 2016 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-35639233 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionBill Gates told the BBC there should be a debate about the degree to which tech firms co-operate with anti-terrorism investigation The row between Apple and the FBI over access to a dead murderer's phone should start a debate about government requests for data, says Bill Gates. The FBI wants Apple to unlock an iPhone used by Syed Rizwan Farook, who killed 14 people in December last year. Apple has resisted the demand saying the FBI order was "dangerous" and "unprecedented". Speaking to the Financial Times, the Microsoft founder said complying would not put a backdoor in all iPhones. "This is a specific case where the government is asking for access to information," he said in the interview. "They are not asking for some general thing, they are asking for a particular case." Mr Gates said the case was similar to the requests regularly made to phone companies and banks for information. In a separate interview with the BBC, Mr Gates reiterated his view that the issue came down to a debate about whether governments can get at data they use to protect citizens. "Should governments be able to access information at all or should they be blind, that's essentially what we are talking about," he told the BBC. Mr Gates also spoke to Bloomberg, and said he was "disappointed" that some parts of the media had suggested he had "backed" the FBI. The Financial Times subsequently changed the headline of its report to reflect this. More requests Microsoft itself has not formally commented on the row between the FBI and Apple. However, when pushed on the issue Microsoft referred to a statement issued by the Reform Government Surveillance group of which it is a member. That statement sides with Apple saying: "Technology companies should not be required to build in backdoors to the technologies that keep their users' information secure." It emerged this week that the US Department of Justice is asking for Apple's help to get at data on iPhones relevant to more than a dozen separate investigations. On Tuesday, the Wall Street Journal said the cases came from several different criminal investigations and data locked on the handsets would help law enforcement. It said none of the cases is believed to be related to terrorism and many involved older iPhones that lack the stronger security protections found on newer devices. The New York Times subsequently reported that the DoJ was demanding Apple unlock "at least nine iPhones" in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Boston. Majority call Image copyright AP Image caption Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg said he was "sympathetic" to Apple's reasons for refusing to comply More recently, Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg said he was "sympathetic" to Apple's stance in the row. The attack in San Bernadino by Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife Tashfeen Malik in December last year left 14 people dead and 22 injured. In a statement published on Sunday, FBI director James Comey said its demand for access to the data on the phone was "about the victims and justice". Slightly more than half of all Americans, 51%, when asked whether Apple should unlock the phone, believe it should comply with the FBI's order, according to a survey carried out by the Pew Research Center. Of those questioned, 38% said Apple should resist the call and 11% had no opinion. On Monday, Apple boss Tim Cook sent a letter to the firm's employees about the row saying its refusal was about a broader civil rights issue not just this one case. It also called for the US government to set up a government panel on encryption to look into the ways law enforcement can ask for access to data. Related Topics Cyber-security Bill Gates Apple Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Zuckerberg is 'sympathetic' to Apple in its clash with FBI 22 February 2016 Apple v the FBI - a plain English guide 18 February 2016 Apple ordered to unlock San Bernardino gunman's phone 17 February 2016 Apple rejects order to unlock gunman's phone 17 February 2016 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.