https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16284020
ITC judge: Motorola Mobility infringed Microsoft patent - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology ITC judge: Motorola Mobility infringed Microsoft patent 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16284020 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Microsoft said Motorola Mobility's Droid X2 was one of the devices that infringed its scheduling patent Motorola Mobility has been found to have infringed one of Microsoft's patents in a preliminary ruling by a US trade panel judge. The technology covers techniques to schedule meetings and synchronise group calendars from a smartphone. The International Trade Commission judge found there was no violation of six other disputed patents. The ruling may aid Microsoft's efforts to chase licence fees from other Android-based handset makers. Microsoft already charges HTC, Samsung and others royalties for technologies used in Google's operating system which it claims makes use of some of its innovations. In October the Windows software-maker said it had struck licence deals with companies "accounting for more than half of all Android devices". Motorola Mobility was not among their number. 'One is enough' Patent dispute experts said that other handset makers may now fall in line. "If the initial finding is confirmed, then this will put Microsoft in strong position to stop other smartphone manufacturers who have not licensed this US patent from importing phones with an operating system, and not just Android, which includes a calendar and which lets you send meeting scheduling requests by email," said Andrew Alton, European patent attorney at Urquhart-Dykes & Lord who has previously carried out patent work for Apple. "The fact that a number of Microsoft's other US patents were not found infringed is probably not so important as Microsoft only need this one patent to stop importation into the US." Mr Alton noted that the European Patent Office had refused to allow the equivalent patent because "it was found to be obvious". Microsoft has appealed the decision. Until now Microsoft has targeted its lawsuits against device manufacturers rather than Google itself. However, that is set to change in 2012 when the search giant hopes to complete its takeover of Motorola Mobility. Review Microsoft's deputy general counsel, David Howard, said: "We are pleased with the ITC's initial determination finding Motorola violated four claims of Microsoft's patents." Microsoft clarified that devices involved included the Motorola Droid 2, the Droid X, and the Backflip. Motorola's general counsel, Scott Offer, said: "We are very pleased that the majority of the rulings were favourable to Motorola Mobility. "The initial determination may provide clarity on the definition of the... Microsoft... patent for which a violation was found and will help us avoid infringement of this patent in the US market." The initial ITC ruling will now go before the full commission for review. A final decision is expected in April 2012. Sales ban The panel will also consider Microsoft's request that infringing phones be barred from being sold in the US. Legal experts said the dispute might cause Motorola Mobility problems, but it could yet find a way to avoid paying royalties. "The US patent is very broad and it is not immediately apparent that Android would be able to retain the meeting scheduling features in their calendar application," said Mr Alton. "Removing the ability to schedule meetings by email would probably get them round the US patent, but that is probably a feature most enterprise users would expect. "If it turns out that Motorola has some US patents itself, particularly in the mobile phone space which it can successfully assert against Microsoft, then cross licensing might be expected." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story HTC loses Apple phone patent case 20 December 2011 BT sues Google over Android 'patent infringements' 8 March 2012 German HTC retailers are threatened with patent lawsuit 8 March 2012 Related Internet links Google Microsoft US International Trade Commission Urquhart-Dykes & Lord HTC Samsung European Patent Office Apple The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.