https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-22950812
Prism: Yahoo reveals US data requests - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Prism: Yahoo reveals US data requests 18 June 2013 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-22950812 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Yahoo chief executive Marissa Mayer said it would publish a twice-yearly transparency report Yahoo is the latest company to reveal its dealings with the US authorities, following revelations about the Prism surveillance programme. It said it had received between 12,000 and 13,000 US government requests for user data in the past year and a half. Most of them had "concerned fraud, homicides, kidnappings, and other criminal investigations", it said. Yahoo voiced frustration that it was unable to reveal the number of requests that had concerned national security. It urged the government to "reconsider its stance on this issue". "Like all companies, Yahoo cannot lawfully break out Fisa [Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act] request numbers at this time because those numbers are classified," it said in a blog post by chief executive Marissa Mayer and general counsel Ron Bell. Under pressure FISA is widely seen as the legislation under which Prism operated. Earlier in the week Twitter also said it was important to be able to publish numbers of national security requests. And Google said lumping police requests with national security requests was "a step back for users". Tech firms have been under pressure to disclose information about data passed to the National Security Agency (NSA) since the Guardian and Washington Post revealed the existence of Prism - a programme giving the NSA access to user data held on the servers of tech firms including Microsoft, Yahoo, Google, Facebook, PalTalk, AOL, and Apple. The NSA later confirmed the existence of the surveillance scheme as well as a separate phone-records programme, which it said had helped it thwart terrorist plots in the US and more than 20 other countries. Rebuilding trust Technology companies, which initially denied any knowledge of the Prism project, are now rushing to rebuild trust from users shocked at the idea that their data was viewable by the authorities. Yahoo laid out plans to publish a twice-yearly global transparency report, the first of which will be issued "later this summer". "Democracy demands accountability," the blog said. "We appreciate - and do not take for granted- the trust you place in us." Other companies have been quick to rebut suggestions they simply hand over data whenever asked. "Only if appropriate, we retrieve and deliver the narrowest possible set of information to the authorities," said Apple. Facebook's general counsel Ted Ullyot said: "We aggressively protect our users' data when confronted with such requests; we frequently reject such requests outright, or require the government to substantially scale down its requests, or simply give the government much less data than it has requested." So far disclosures have revealed: Apple received between 4,000 and 5,000 requests from federal, state and local authorities between December 2012 and May 2013 Facebook received between 9,000 and 10,000 requests between July and December 2012 Microsoft received between 6,000 and 7,000 requests between July and December 2012 Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story NSA snooping: Facebook reveals details of data requests 15 June 2013 Prism: Just how much do the spooks know? 7 June 2013 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.