https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-15723407
Web privacy tools to warn of internet tracking cookies - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Web privacy tools to warn of internet tracking cookies 14 November 2011 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-15723407 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption The technologies will help users manage how much sites know about who they are Internet users will receive a warning if sites do not respect their privacy thanks to new tools being developed by the web's standards setting body. The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) wants to help users control how their personal data is managed. It is designing controls to shield personal data and reveal when sites do not honour privacy requests. The W3C now wants users, browser makers and businesses to help finish and implement the specifications. "Users have the feeling they are being being tracked and some users have privacy concerns and would like to solve them," said Dr Matthias Schunter from IBM who chairs the W3C group drawing up the Do Not Track technologies. Co-ordination The working group is defining software specifications that will: let browser settings tell websites to do less tracking let websites acknowledge privacy requests define best practices for sites so they can comply with different privacy needs Dr Schunter said the specifications aim to end the current situation in which different browser makers adopt incompatible Do Not Track systems. "Currently websites need to implement all these different protocols," he said. "There's no standard way to respect privacy preferences." "We want to standardise all these protocols so they talk the same language and then tell websites what to do with them," said Dr Schunter. The tools resulting from the W3C work would aim to be "privacy friendly" and surrender as little information as possible, he added. For instance, he said, a site could log a user's language preference by noting their name and native tongue and store that in a cookie - little text files sites use to record information about regular visitors. A more privacy-friendly way, said Dr Schunter, would have browser software note that its owner prefers a particular language without surrendering any identifying information. Users could be warned about sites that do not do a good job of respecting requests to keep information private. While the W3C cannot insist that sites and software vendors follow its lead, said Dr Schunter, it was more than likely that they would adopt the technologies. The finished technologies are expected to be implemented by browser makers first in mid-2012 with websites following soon after as they get to grips with the best practices. More than 15 firms and organisations are involved in the Do Not Track work including Adobe, Apple, Facebook, Google, Microsoft, the Electronic Frontier Foundation and Stanford University. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Cookie law deferred for one year 25 May 2011 Facebook 'to seek consent for privacy changes' 11 November 2011 IE9 introduces anti-tracking tool 8 December 2010 Private browsing modes leak data 6 August 2010 Related Internet links World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) W3C tracking protection work IBM The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.