https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-30793702
Facebook restricts violent video clips and photos - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Facebook restricts violent video clips and photos By Leo Kelion Technology desk editor 13 January 2015 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-30793702 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Facebook Image caption Potentially distressing video clips are covered by a warning that stops them auto-playing Facebook has begun placing warnings over videos posted to its site, stating their contents might "shock, offend and upset" if viewed. The alerts prevent the videos from automatically playing in feeds unless they are clicked, unlike other clips. The site is also preventing graphic videos and photos from being shown to any user who has identified themself as being under 18 years old. It follows pressure for the move from its own safety advisers. But one psychologist said the measure still did not do enough to protect young, vulnerable members of the social network. Among the first posts to be affected are uploaded files containing video footage of policeman Ahmed Merabet being shot dead in Paris by a terrorist involved in last week's Charlie Hebdo attacks. Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Video clips showing the murder of policeman Ahmed Merabet are among those affected Murder videos Facebook has faced repeated criticism over recent years for allowing violent and graphic images that it deems to be of public interest or concern to remain on its pages. The US firm's guidelines ban material "shared for sadistic pleasure or to celebrate or glorify violence". However, it allows news reports and other documentary images depicting beheadings and other types of murder to remain online despite the potential for distress. The firm permits children as young as 13 years old to be members. But some even younger children circumvent this age limit by providing false details when joining up. Last August, controversy over images showing people's heads placed on spikes in Syria prompted the Family Online Safety Institute (Fosi) - a member of Facebook's safety advisory board - to demand the social network change its practices. Stephen Balkam, the charity's chief executive, told the BBC he wanted cover pages to be placed over graphic material to prevent people from seeing distressing images without warning, and an age-gate system implemented to make it harder for under-18s to find the material. Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Facebook has resisted calls to censor violent clips by banning them outright Work in progress Facebook has now confirmed it began rolling out such a scheme in December. It applies to graphic material reported to the firm by its users that is judged to have been posted in an irresponsible manner. "When people share things on Facebook, we expect that they will share it responsibly, including choosing who will see that content," a spokeswoman told the BBC. "We also ask that people warn their audience about what they are about to see if it includes graphic violence. "In instances when people report graphic content to us that should include warnings or is not appropriate for people under the age of 18, we may add a warning for adults and prevent young people from viewing the content." The spokeswoman added that the firm's engineers were still looking to further improve the scheme. She said this might include adding warnings to relevant YouTube videos, which is not currently possible, as well as placing alerts over distressing photographs that were still available to adults. Image copyright Facebook Image caption Facebook trialled a more basic warning scheme in 2013 after facing criticism about beheading videos Mr Balkam said he was "delighted" by Facebook's move. "I also think that it has walked a very fine line between protection of users and protection of free expression, and I think it has got it just about right," he added. Facebook had briefly experimented with adding a more basic form of warning sign to clips of decapitations in October 2013 after Prime Minister David Cameron said: "It's irresponsible of Facebook to post beheading videos, especially without a warning." Clips showing decapitations taking place were later banned altogether. 'Good step' News of the social network's latest move was welcomed by Childnet International, a London-based charity that is another member of Facebook's safety advisory panel. "It's a good step to try and help protect people from this content, and we are glad that there is 18 age-gating," said the organisation's chief executive Will Gardner. "There always has to be the recognition that people don't always sign up with their accurate age, and we have to be aware of that. But it's important that there are steps taken to protect people from seeing harmful and disturbing content that they don't want to see." However, Dr Arthur Cassidy - a psychologist who runs a branch of the Yellow Ribbon Program suicide-prevention charity - said Facebook should implement an outright ban on clips and pictures of extreme violence. He noted that large numbers of children used the service and said it was likely that many would try to work around the new restrictions. "At the end of the day warning messages will not prevent young people from seeing upsetting and psychologically damaging material," he said. "We know if we say, 'Do not do it,' that they will still do it - they will want to look and view material, irrespective of how grotesque it is. "And it has the potential to influence maladaptive behaviour in those who might have the potential to become aggressors themselves." Related Topics Facebook Internet Apps Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Syrian beheading photos spur call for Facebook rethink 27 August 2014 Facebook irresponsible over beheading videos, says PM 22 October 2013 Censoring Facebook: Social network's violent video dilemma 10 May 2013 Related Internet links Facebook Fosi Childnet International Yellow Ribbon The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.