https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-10719042
BBC News - The ups and downs of social networks For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site. Accessibility links Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help BBC AccountBBC Account Settings Sign out BBC navigation News Sport Weather iPlayer TV Radio More… Search term: Technology Home World UK England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Business Politics Health Education Sci/Environment Technology Entertainment & Arts 22 July 2010 Last updated at 15:00 Share this page Delicious Digg Facebook reddit StumbleUpon Twitter Email Print The ups and downs of social networks Facebook has announced that it now has 500m active users, just six years after it was launched. The site has become the poster child of social networking on the web. While some others have seen growth, MySpace, Flickr and Bebo appear to have declined in the past year, according to these figures from Nielsen. Interesting international variations are seen, both in the amount of time Facebook users spend on the site each month and in the competing networks' popularity in different countries. Download the data in full Related Stories The unintended consequences of Facebook The top 100 sites on the internet Cold turkey for a Facebook addict Below is a selection of your comments Facebook may have more users at the moment but we all know that Twitter is the future of Social Networking as it is the only true social networking site. It allows you to contact and discuss subjects with people you do not know and are highly unlikely ever to meet (and just celebrities all you nay-sayers out there). Whereas Facebook appears limited to people you either already know, in which case what is the point of chatting on Facebook to them when you can pick up the phone. Vincent Shaw, Manchester, UK What are the "hours spent" averaged by? Active users of Facebook in their respective countries? Oscar, Hove Maybe this data will stop all the lazy journalism reprinting Twitter feeds and analysing everything with regards to Twitter as if it is representative of the whole country's opinion and needs. I, for one, am fed up of every other story seeming to include something about twitter when less than 4m of the population use it, and even less will tweet. Chris Elgar, Ely, Cambs Really interesting to see growth in number of members on Facebook, but I'd really like to see this over laid with other metrics including aggregate activity on Facebook.. for instance, while there may be more members, are the existing members doing less (updates and photo submissions for instance) than they used to. Certainly an interesting view. Simon Dance, London I think what would be even more useful is to have a graph showing users as a %age of population for each country. Evans, Newport, S Wales More on This Story Related Stories The unintended consequences of Facebook 21 JULY 2010, US & CANADA The top 100 sites on the internet 12 MARCH 2010, TECHNOLOGY Cold turkey for a Facebook addict 12 OCTOBER 2009, MAGAZINE Status update: Who cares? 27 AUGUST 2009, MAGAZINE Related Internet links Facebook Nielsen Facebook blog – 500 million stories Visual economics – the Republic of Facebook The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Share this page Delicious Digg Facebook reddit StumbleUpon Twitter Email Print More Technology stories RSS Car slows when it sees speed signs Ford announces it is to start selling cars that restrict their speed to the limits shown on the road signs they pass. Facebook Messenger lets apps plug in BT returns to mobile phone market Top Stories 'Two brothers' behind Brussels attacks Trump and Clinton win big in Arizona Ash tree set for extinction in Europe Child sex abuse handling 'inadequate' BHS faces crucial vote on its future Features IS in Europe: The race to the death Tuesday's devastating attacks in Brussels show IS's European network is still at large, despite a year of intensive efforts by security forces to close it down. Project Greenglow and the battle with gravity Scientists are debating whether it's possible to harness the power of gravity for interstellar space travel. The boy who refused to leave police custody The four-year-old boy who has become the centre of a controversy between India and Pakistan - and between his father and mother. The mirth and misogyny of Andy Capp Why, almost 60 years after he first appeared in the Daily Mirror, is a layabout lout from north-east England still so loved around the world? Services Mobile Connected TV News feeds Alerts E-mail news About BBC News Editors' blog BBC College of Journalism News sources Editorial Guidelines BBC links Mobile site Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Accessibility Help Cookies Contact the BBC Parental Guidance Copyright © 2019 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.