https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16098193
Twitter redesign offer big name brands more prominence - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Twitter redesign offer big name brands more prominence 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16098193 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Twitter has been in dialogue with several brands ahead of the relaunch Twitter has redesigned its micro-blogging service giving companies a greater presence on its network. The company said the enhancements would make Twitter a more "compelling destination" for brands. The firm depends on its relationship with advertisers. At present its main source of revenue is "promoted" tweets, accounts and trends sold for cash. Experts have warned that the company must be careful not to "compromise users' experience". "It may make Twitter's members feel that its commercial interests are being put ahead of their own," said UK-based digital consultant Philip Buxton. He warned that the business needed to be aware of the mistakes other social media organisations had made after increasing the amount of marketing on their services. "Twitter realises looking after its users is essential to its success, but it knows it also needs commercial success to sustain the service," Mr Buxton added. However, a spokeswoman for Twitter said the main goal of the revamp was to make the service more simple and easy to use, rather than to focus on brands. "If users don't want to see a brand's page, then they can just not visit it," said Rachel Bremer. 'Simplified' The so-called "brand pages" will bring Twitter in line with similar features offered by Facebook and Google+. A new "discover" feature highlights content from Twitter based on a user's interests and location, an enhancement of the site'sexisting hashtag system. "We've simplified the design to make it easier than ever to follow what you care about, connect with others and discover something new," the company said ina blog post. "You'll see this new design both on Twitter.com and mobile phones, so that you'll have a familiar experience any time, anywhere." The company said an update to its standalone app Tweetdeck would also be made available. Twitterbought the UK-developed tweeting software for £25m in May. Twitter said that the upgrade would be rolled out to all users "in the next few weeks". The new features can be accessed earlier by downloading the firm's updated mobile app. However, UK brands will not have an opportunity to take advantage of the new profile pages until 2012. Bigger presence Several brands have partnered with Twitter for the launch including Coca-Cola, Disney, Nike and McDonald's. The redesign allows companies more customisation over the look of their pages and the ability to show embedded multimedia. Image caption Twitter says the new 'discover' section will be a richer multimedia experience Daniel Bennett, from US advertising firm JWT New York, said the new "discover" feature was crucial, as it would encourage companies to match their postings to members' interests. "It probably raises the bar in how brands have to behave on the site," he said. "I think this will dominate more of the brands' dollars in terms of managing and maintaining their online presence." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Alec Baldwin leaves Twitter after American Airlines row 8 March 2012 Google+ opens service to everyone 20 September 2011 Related Internet links Twitter JWT The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.