https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-29999776
Facebook new Messenger service reaches 500 million users - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Facebook new Messenger service reaches 500 million users 11 November 2014 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-29999776 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Facebook Messenger now has half a billion users Social networking giant Facebook said its new messaging service now has more than 500 million users worldwide. Users of the separate Messenger app have more than doubled from 200 million in April, the company said. Facebook had faced a backlash after it announced it would be forcing users to download the app to send private messages to friends over the main Facebook service. Users started being pushed to download the app - launched in 2011 - in July. "Messaging is an important part of how people stay connected and since Messenger launched in 2011 we've been passionate about giving people a faster and more expressive way to communicate," said Facebook's director of product management Peter Martinazzi in a blog on Thursday. Facing criticism In April, Facebook had told users that they would need to download a separate app to allow them to send videos, make free calls and chat with friends. But, the tech giant was widely criticised by users that did not like the concept of leaving the Facebook website to another service to send messages. That led to the iOS App Store review score for the recent version of the Messenger app to fall to one and half stars. "Messenger was the first of our standalone apps, and unlike our core Facebook apps, it focused on one use case - messaging," Mr Martinazzi said. "We've also continued to improve speed and reliability. Updates to Messenger ship every two weeks so it continues to evolve and improve," he added, indicating that Facebook plans to stick with the app despite the negative feedback. Last week Facebook's chief executive Mark Zuckerberg acknowledged that forcing people to install another app was "a short term painful thing", but added that the benefit was that his firm could offer a "faster and more focused" experience. One company watcher suggested that Facebook should be cautious about risks of creating too many separate apps. "Facebook's key strategy is keeping people engaged within its world - whether it's the Messenger app or the core Facebook app," said Jack Kent, senior mobile analyst at the IHS Technology consultancy. "It probably wouldn't want to go down the road of having a huge variety of separate apps, but if there is a clear and distinct difference in functionality, then having a standalone app does make sense." Meanwhile, Facebook has been trying to get on the forefront of mobile messaging, and finalised a deal to buy popular messaging service WhatsApp last month for about $22bn (£13.8bn). The mobile messaging app had more than 600 million monthly users at the time of the acquisition. Related Topics Facebook Internet Social media Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Facebook's government user data requests up 24% 5 November 2014 Facebook messenger app payments 'revealed' 6 October 2014 Facebook confirms changes to instant message mobile app 10 April 2014 Related Internet links IHS Technology Facebook The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.