https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51966087
Coronavirus: Ways to stay social online while in self-isolation - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Coronavirus: Ways to stay social online while in self-isolation By Cristina Criddle Technology reporter 20 March 2020 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51966087 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Image copyright Getty Images Everyone should avoid non-essential contact with others to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, the prime minister has said. As schools shut and some people work from home, many are feeling cut off from their everyday hobbies and social lives. But the internet offers a means to stay connected and to keep us all entertained and educated through the days of isolation. Here are just some of the ways people are already using technology to lift their spirits. Socialising remotely Groups have also been finding innovative ways to socialise, hosting dinner parties and even Brownies meetings online. Image copyright Goose’s Quizzes Image caption Goose’s Quizzes has swapped the pub for the internet Goose's Quizzes usually runs 45 pub quizzes in Scotland, but has started doing live online sessions every night, with hundreds participating. "It's been a pretty bad couple of weeks and pub quizzes bring the community together," says Andrew Wildgoose, founder of Goose's Quizzes. "So we wanted to find a way for people to still enjoy them." Even book clubs are operating digitally, with private WhatsApp groups forming to share reading lists and Rebel Book Club launching a 14-day free reading challenge for anyone who needs extra accountability. Image copyright Rebel Book Club Image caption Reading doesn't need to be a solitary pursuit People have also been downloading the free Google Chrome extension Netflix Party, which allows users to watch Netflix together. It synchronises screens and creates a group chat to communicate. Museums and art galleries For those craving some culture, museums and galleries have been posting on social media under the hashtag #museumfromhome, showcasing their collections. Image Copyright @ngadc @ngadc Report Image Copyright @ngadc @ngadc Report Content is not available Image Copyright @DanNouveau @DanNouveau Report Image Copyright @DanNouveau @DanNouveau Report One exhibition at God's House Tower in Southampton is having a "virtual launch" on Saturday, as the venue has shut due to coronavirus. Image copyright God’s House Tower Image caption God’s House Tower art gallery "We're really devastated that the venue has to close temporarily," says Daniel Crow, director of the gallery. "Hopefully, this will allow people around the world, not just those local, to see it. "It really does herald a new era in God's House Tower's fascinating 700-year-old history by presenting art exhibitions online." Workout videos Exercise classes have moved from gyms to online, creating videos or "lives" on Instagram and Facebook. Many fitness clubs, including Barry's, Crossfit and David Lloyd, are providing online workouts people can do at home. Image copyright Crossfit Amanda Dufour, a yoga instructor who is currently self-isolating, has filmed YouTube videos to follow and has been teaching classes via Zoom and Skype. "The best thing about yoga is that you can do it anywhere, with no equipment," she says. "It really gives you a chance to take a break from work, stay calm and process everything that's going on. Image copyright Amanda Dufour Image caption Amanda Dufour is teaching yoga via video chat apps "Stretching can make a big difference if you're hunched up on a laptop all day at home." Petcare Free video appointments with vets are also being offered on the FirstVet app until the end of April. Users are paired with a qualified vet who can give advice and refer the patient to a physical service if necessary. Image copyright FirstVet Image caption Vets can help provide pet owners with advice online David Prien, the firm's co-founder, says there's been an 80% rise in people using the app over the past few weeks. "Just because you're in isolation doesn't mean your pet stays healthy," he adds, noting that it also gives vets who are housebound something to keep them occupied. People are also signing up to dog-walking apps, such as Borrow My Doggy, to walk the pets of those who cannot because of new working arrangements or self-isolation. Image Copyright @undividual @undividual Report Image Copyright @undividual @undividual Report Cooking Following food shortages in supermarkets, foodies are getting creative online, posting tips for alternative ingredients and recipes with a limited food cupboard. Image Copyright @BootstrapCook @BootstrapCook Report Image Copyright @BootstrapCook @BootstrapCook Report Image Copyright @PatiJinich @PatiJinich Report Image Copyright @PatiJinich @PatiJinich Report Nia Williams, director of Slow Food Wales, a grassroots movement that promotes local food and traditional cooking, is making video guides on how to grow fruit and vegetables at home. "We've had so much freedom and access in our lives recently, so now people have gone into shock," Nia says. "I'm making these videos so families have something to do but to also empower them to have a bit more control over their food and situation." Finally, for those wishing to add a touch of class to their nights in, the Champagne Bureau has this handy guide to pairing champagne with your takeaway of choice. Image Copyright @Champagne_UK @Champagne_UK Report Image Copyright @Champagne_UK @Champagne_UK Report "Champagne is a versatile wine which enhances our everyday meals," says Francoise Peretti, director of the UK division. "As we face these times of uncertainty and self-isolate, it will provide the joyful lift we all need," View comments Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Social isolation Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Coronavirus: How can we stay in virtual touch with older relatives? 18 March 2020 Coronavirus: How easy it for the UK to make more ventilators? 17 March 2020 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.