https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-24472567
Chrome steals a march on Windows - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Chrome steals a march on Windows Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 10 October 2013 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-24472567 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel The dramatic slide in sales of PCs continues, but for one new player in this market this is an opportunity. Google has launched another of its Chromebook laptops this week - made by HP in this case - and is poised to grab a bigger share of a shrinking market. That won't amuse Microsoft whose own mission to expand beyond its PC powerbase isn't making much progress. Google's Chromebooks are quite limited devices that only really function well for web-surfing, email and document writing rather than for more sophisticated applications. Nevertheless, their price is making them attractive to anyone wanting an easy way of getting online and doing some work without going to the expense of buying a tablet whose touch screen interface might not suit them. The latest figures from Gartner, reporting an 8.6% fall in PC sales in the last three months compared to a year ago show that the trend is away from devices like the Chromebook and towards tablets. The volume of sales in the back-to-school quarter were at their lowest level since 2008. Against this background though, the Chromebook is surging ahead. Gartner reckons two million will be sold this year, over five million in 2014, and 12 million by 2016. Now that will still leave the Chrome OS with just over 3% of a PC market where margins will grow ever slimmer and profits will be harder to find. But for Google that's not really the point. Every time someone opens a Chromebook they are signing into a Google account and almost certainly becoming part of the search firm's contextual advertising audience. That, rather than selling hardware, is how the company makes its money - and its reach on PCs, mobile phones and tablets is growing all the time. True, its relationship with manufacturers is increasingly important. Google has already worked with Samsung and Acer on Chromebooks, and now HP, still a huge force despite losing number one spot to Lenovo, is putting its weight behind the Chrome OS. By contrast, Microsoft is going it alone as it tries to build a presence in a mobile world increasingly dominated by Google's Android. Its Windows RT operating system, designed to offer users the benefits of the touch screen tablet experience combined with the familiar Windows desktop, has failed to excite the big manufacturers. Right now, Microsoft's Surface RT - recently revamped - is the only tablet using the OS, with the likes of Samsung, Dell and Lenovo all dropping it in favour of Android or the full-strength Windows 8. Now Microsoft still has much closer and longer relationships with manufacturers than Google, and is making far more in profit from Windows and Office than the search giant makes from advertising. But Microsoft executives who get their hands on the latest HP Chromebook may feel slightly sick if they turn it over and read the message on the back - "Made with Google." View comments Related Topics HP Inc Google Microsoft Samsung Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.