https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16338680
'Anonymous' hack victims face repeat attacks - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology 'Anonymous' hack victims face repeat attacks 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16338680 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption The Anonymous group has aligned itself in the real world with the Occupy movement Victims of a hack attack on a US-based security think tank have been warned against speaking out for fears they could be targeted again. Stratfor's websitehas been down since it was apparently hit by the hacker group Anonymous on Christmas Eve. The company's chairman used Facebook to apologise to customers but warned against posting messages of support. The hackers said they would use stolen credit card details to donate "over a million dollars" (£638,000) to charity. In aFacebook post on Monday, Stratfor thanked users who had offered public support - but warned of reprisals. "It's come to our attention that our members who are speaking out in support of us on Facebook may be being targeted for doing so and are at risk of having sensitive information repeatedly published on other websites," it said. "In order to protect yourselves, we recommend taking security precautions when speaking out on Facebook or abstaining from it altogether." This was followed later with a messageadmitting the full extent of the hack. "On December 24th an unauthorized party disclosed personally identifiable information and related credit card data of some of our members," chairman George Friedman wrote. We want [Bradley Manning] out on the streets at a fancy restaurant of his choosing, and we want this to happen in less than five hours 'Anonymous' demand "We have reason to believe that your personal and credit card data could have been included in the information that was illegally obtained and disclosed." Mr Friedman said that a "leading identity theft protection and monitoring service" had been tasked with protecting clients. The company's email and servers have been taken offline. The company also said the disclosure of what hackers claimed were "private clients" was "merely a list of some of the members that have purchased our publications and does not comprise a list of individuals or entities that have a relationship with Stratfor". Splinter groups A spokesperson alleging to represent Anonymous claimed they had been able to obtain the information because it was unencrypted. They claimed that thousands of emails, passwords and credit card details had been taken. They said Stratfor's clients included the US Department of Defense, law enforcement agencies and media organisations. However, some confusion has surrounded the perpetrators of the attack. A release also claiming to come from the group on Christmas Day said that Anonymous did not carry out the attack, and in fact supported Stratfor due to its "unbiased" reporting work. Image caption Stratfor's site has been taken down for 'ongoing maintenance' In the past, splinter groups of Anonymous members have emerged, the most notable of which was LulzSec, who were credited with beingresponsible for several high-profile attacks earlier this year. Anonymous has previously claimed responsibility for cyber attacks on financial institutions seen as enemies of the whistleblowing website Wikileaks. This latest attack appears to be in support of alleged Wikileaks source Bradley Manningwho currently awaits trial. A message posted by Anonymous referring to the Stratfor attack read: "We hereby ask that Bradley Manning be given a delicious meal this Lulzxmas, and no, not the "holiday special" in the prison chow hall. "We want him out on the streets at a fancy restaurant of his choosing, and we want this to happen in less than five hours." The demand was not met. At the time of publication, Stratfor could not be reached for comment. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Hackers hit US security company 26 December 2011 'Hackers' threaten drugs cartel 31 October 2011 Hackers attack child porn sites 24 October 2011 Related Internet links Stratfor The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.