https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18295884
Google to charge companies for product search listings - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Google to charge companies for product search listings 1 June 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18295884 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption The price comparison service also states delivery times and other users' ratings of listed retailer Google is to start charging for listing products in its Product Search service. From autumn, only retailers who have paid a fee will appear. For the past 10 years the price comparison service's results were based solely on relevance. It drives traffic worth about $1.3bn (£849m) in annual sales globally, according to e-commerce consultants Channeladvisor. The move has the potential to generate new profits for the US firm. "We believe that having a commercial relationship with merchants will encourage them to keep their product information fresh and up to date," said Sameer Samat, vice president of product management for Google Shopping in a blogpost. "Higher quality data - whether it's accurate prices, the latest offers or product availability - should mean better shopping results for users, which in turn should create higher quality traffic for merchants." The service, which will be renamed Google Shopping, is available by clicking "more" on the search site's toolbar. Additional costs Martin Gill, principal analyst with Forrester Research, said Google Product Search had been a popular way to drive traffic to websites without incurring extra costs. "Consumers are more likely to search for a product in a search engine than directly on a company website," he said. "These changes add another layer of complexity to online advertising." Amazon and eBay are among companies that have profited from traffic driven by Google's price comparison lists and now face fees if they want to continue appearing. The changes may come under close scrutiny by the European Commission, further complicating an ongoing investigation into whether Google has abused its dominant market position. "If Google is transparent to consumers about the new sponsored results and promoted search results, they have a better chance of securing a settlement in the antitrust investigation" said Mr Gill. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Google must answer EU antitrust concerns over search 21 May 2012 Cookie law: websites must seek consent from this weekend 25 May 2012 Google makes search 'more human' with Knowledge Graph 16 May 2012 Related Internet links Google Forrester Chalnneladvisor The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.