https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-35595840
Lee Rigby's family criticises Apple policy - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Lee Rigby's family criticises Apple policy By Chris Foxx Technology reporter 18 February 2016 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-35595840 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright AP Image caption The FBI wants help cracking the passcode on Syed Rizwan Farook's iPhone The family of Fusilier Lee Rigby, who was murdered by extremists in 2013, has criticised Apple for opposing a court order. On Wednesday, Apple said modifying its software to help the FBI access data on San Bernardino gunman Syed Rizwan Farook's device would be "dangerous". Mr Rigby's uncle Ray McClure said the company was "protecting a murderer's privacy at the cost of public safety". But a number of tech leaders and privacy advocates have backed Apple. They include Google's chief executive Sundar Pichai who tweeted that requiring companies to enable the hacking of their customer devices "could be a troubling precedent". Whatsapp's founder Jan Koum added that he admired Apple's chief executive Tim Cook, and added: "Today our freedom and our liberty is at stake." Mr McClure, who contacted the BBC after reading Apple's statement, said he thought Apple's approach was "short-sighted". Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionEXPLAINED: What does the FBI want? In December, Syed Rizwan Farook and his wife Tashfeen Malik were shot after killing 14 people in California. US officials said Malik pledged allegiance to the so-called Islamic State in a social media post on the day of the shooting. Apple had been ordered to help the FBI circumvent security software on Farook's iPhone, which the FBI said contained crucial information. But the company said it would oppose the court order because it "set a dangerous precedent". Image caption Fusilier Lee Rigby, from Middleton, Greater Manchester, was killed by extremists in 2013 "Valuable evidence is on that smartphone and Apple is denying the FBI access to that information," Mr McClure told the BBC. "If a court issued a warrant in the UK or United States to search somebody's house, you wouldn't stop them, you would allow them in - why should a smartphone be any different? "If Mr Cook has no sympathy for terrorists, why is he stopping the FBI accessing those phone records?" Apple has not indicated whether fulfilling the court order would be physically possible. In an open letter on Wednesday, Tim Cook said Apple did cooperate with law enforcement. "When the FBI has requested data that's in our possession, we have provided it," he wrote. "We have also made Apple engineers available to advise the FBI... we have worked hard to support the government's efforts to solve this horrible crime. We have no sympathy for terrorists." Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionWhat is encryption? The company said it would oppose the court order because it would create a "backdoor" in the security of its operating system. "In the wrong hands, this software — which does not exist today — would have the potential to unlock any iPhone in someone's physical possession," the company said. But Mr McClure said companies were forgetting about the victims of crime, and the families of those killed. "I would hate to see on the streets of London another murder like happened to Lee Rigby, I'd hate to see another attack like happened in Paris," he said. "How many victims of crime are not getting justice because of Apple's stance?" However, privacy advocates have backed Apple's position. "The FBI's request, which would in practice require Apple to rewrite its operating system to weaken security protections, would set a very dangerous precedent," said Sherif Elsayed-Ali from Amnesty International. Image copyright Reuters Image caption Since 2014, new iPhones have been encrypted by default "Such backdoors undermine everyone's security and threaten our right to privacy. "This isn't an issue about reading a known terrorist's texts - it's about how the functionality could be abused in other ways." Greg Nojeim from the Centre for Democracy and Technology agreed: "If the order stands, Apple and other technology companies could be ordered to build backdoors - essentially defects - into other devices, rendering them insecure and vulnerable to attack by law enforcement and by others as well." In its statement, Apple said: "The government is asking Apple to hack our own users and undermine decades of security advancements that protect our customers. "We can find no precedent for an American company being forced to expose its customers to a greater risk of attack." Mr McClure said he appreciated the value of encryption but that some companies had taken things too far. "I'm not saying take encryption off the iPhone, but there has to be a balance," he told the BBC. "Where there is a legally obtained warrant for information we should be helping the authorities get that information. "That can also clear an innocent person too, it works both ways." Related Topics Cyber-security Apple Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Apple v the FBI - a plain English guide 18 February 2016 Apple order: White House says San Bernardino request is limited 17 February 2016 Apple rejects order to unlock gunman's phone 17 February 2016 Video Technology explained: What is encryption? 22 January 2016 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.