https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26424115
Campaigning for coding - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Campaigning for coding Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 3 March 2014 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26424115 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Media playback is unsupported on your device The campaign to get children coding has hit a few bumps in the road lately. The launch of the Year of Code turned into something of a PR fiasco, with attention focused on the lack of programming experience of many of those involved. Even the use of the term coding instead of programming offended some. But this week's Hour of Code - an attempt to get schools across the UK to give their pupils just a flavour of programming - may prove a better way of promoting the idea that we need to improve the way children understand computing. When I went along to the campaign launch at Westminster City School, I found one thing that is common to all the various campaigns - huge enthusiasm by those involved - and a couple of things that some have lacked. The first important strategic move was getting the right level of expertise involved, and making sure that the computing industry was on board. From the British Computer Society, to Computing At School and Microsoft, all sorts of companies and organisations are lending their expertise to the Hour of Code. And the woman running it, Avid Larizadeh, is not going to be popping up on Newsnight to explain that she has never done any coding but thinks it's a great idea. While she runs her own online fashion business, she has a background in programming and engineering. "I lead my development team as well as the creative direction of site - I've been able to marry both things." That idea that you can combine engineering and creative skills is what she hopes will inspire both boys and girls to get involved in coding. The other pitfall that the Hour of Code is trying to avoid is to exaggerate what can be achieved. "It won't make you into a coder but it will expose you to the fun of creating things and making things," says Avid Larizadeh. Simon Peyton-Jones, chairman of Computing and Schools and a Microsoft engineer also stresses that it's just about introducing children to the idea of programming and then hoping they will go on to a greater understanding: "This gives everybody a chance to dip a toe in the water, find out what programming is about, and then broaden to understand what the subject discipline of computer science is about, just as they learn about science from pond-dipping at primary school." Certainly, the school children at the launch seemed enthused by the various options on offer - from the Kodu Game Lab to computing without a computer. The difficulty for the campaigners is to make the idea of coding attractive and accessible without being accused by experienced programmers of dumbing down their profession. And then there's that small matter of language. "Oh, I just wish they would call it computing, not coding," said a man from the computer industry at the launch. But we ended up agreeing that the "Hour of Computing" might not be quite so marketable to a generation often bored by the old ICT curriculum. If your school is keen to get involved - or if you're an older person wanting to get a flavour of programming - then there are plenty of resources on the Hour of Code website. As you can see, my colleague Mark Ward had great fun trying it out with his twin boys. Some of the BBC's School Report teams have also been trying out coding, and there will be more material on their site over the coming weeks for schools wanting to get involved in featuring computing in their School Report activities. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.