https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18393993
Apple ditches Google Maps software in latest iOS - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Apple ditches Google Maps software in latest iOS 11 June 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18393993 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Navigation firm TomTom is providing maps for Apple's service Apple has unveiled its latest mobile operating system, iOS6, at its annual Worldwide Developers Conference. The operating system, which runs on its iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch devices, will no longer include Google Maps software. Apple will instead run its own mapping app, which has a high-quality 3D mode, on the platform. Google announced its own 3D mapping software last week on its competing mobile platform, Android. Both companies have used fleets of planes to capture the imagery, drawing concerns from some privacy campaigners. Apple's updated iOS software is being released in beta on Tuesday, and will be available for general consumers by the autumn, chief executive Tim Cook said. It will be a free update for owners of either an iPhone 4S, iPhone 4 or iPhone 3GS - as well as users of the latest iPad, the iPad 2 and fourth generation iPod touch. 'Biggest cheer' Additional features include "eyes free", a feature on which Apple said it had worked with car manufacturers to integrate a "Siri button" to activate the iPhone's voice-operated assistant. For the first time on Apple's devices, video calls will be able to be made over a cellular connection, rather than relying on wi-fi. The switch to its own mapping platform will provide Apple with even more opportunities to monetise its users, said Carolina Milanesi, an analyst for Gartner, who attended the event in San Francisco. "Maps got the biggest cheer [from the audience]," she said. "The opportunity that controlling maps gives to Apple for learning more about what their users are doing, keeping that information, and then being able to leverage that for advertising purposes is huge." Ms Milanesi said the announcements appeared to be warmly received by the developers in attendance. "iOS6 is a continued evolution," she told the BBC. "I think the whole operating system is getting more clever. It's learning from what consumers are doing and improving the experience." Macbook revamp The company also announced revamped models in its Macbook Pro and Macbook Air ranges. Image caption Google last week revealed its own mapping software, which also has 3D capabilities Its new Macbook Pro is 0.71 inches thick, with a high-resolution Retina display. It utilises Intel's Ivy Bridge processor. Its slimline Macbook Air range has also been upgraded with enhanced graphics and processing capabilities. Both will offer a free upgrade to OS X Mountain Lion, the latest version of the Mac operating system which is set for release in July. Among its features is enhanced synchronisation between desktop, laptop and mobile, thanks to iCloud, the company's cloud-based storage service. Once again, predictions that Apple was set to announce a long-rumoured television failed to materialise. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Apple v Google - the mapping wars 12 June 2012 Google unveils new mapping technologies 7 June 2012 Apple doubles quarterly profits to $11.6bn (£7.2bn) 25 April 2012 Parents sue Apple over in-app game charges 16 April 2012 Related Internet links Apple The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.