https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26940305
Taking Google Glass for a run - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Taking Google Glass for a run Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 8 April 2014 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26940305 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel I've started an experiment - and so far it's had mixed reactions. "You look a complete idiot," said my teenage son. "Must you wear that thing?" asked my wife. But "Wow that's exciting!" said at least a couple of colleagues. The "thing" in question is Google Glass, which I'm wearing in a project with two aims. Firstly, I want to assess just how likely it is that this device, which puts smartphone capabilities in a screen in front of your right eye, will become the standard bearer for the nascent wearable tech industry. And secondly, like other news organisations, we are trying to work out whether Google Glass might prove to be a useful new tool in our journalism. It's the device's video filming capabilities that are of particular interest to me. Some reporters have already used Glass to film in difficult circumstances, such as riots and demonstrations. We're wondering whether it might be possible to live-stream the presenter's eye view during our weekly World Service radio programme Tech Tent. (So far, that's looking tricky, but we will persevere.) For a while I thought I'd mastered lifting my head to turn the device on, and winking to take a picture - but then both somehow stopped working And a colleague who writes for the BBC's disability blog Ouch wants to investigate whether Glass could be used by people with visual impairment. Could you for instance make a video call to a friend with better sight to show them what Glass was seeing? So far, I'm intrigued by the possibilities that Glass offers, but not convinced that the the user interface is up to scratch. Learning to make my way efficiently through the menus by stroking and tapping the side of the frame has proved tricky. For a while I thought I'd mastered lifting my head to turn the device on, and winking to take a picture - but then both somehow stopped working. Then I was foolhardy enough to wear Glass for a run early this morning with my dog. Taking pictures was relatively simple, but when a message popped up telling me about a friend's birthday I hit trouble. While trying to dismiss the message, I suddenly found I was calling her in the US - where it was the middle of the night. Image caption Rory's dog through Google Glass - taking the picture was the easy bit... As for the look of the device, that obviously leaves something to be desired, but apart from the derision of family and colleagues, I've yet to experience either the curiosity or the outright hostility that some American users have reported when they wear Glass in public places. Perhaps the British are just more tolerant of bizarre public behaviour. Some people have worried about information overload, but I have not found the device intrusive. Although it sends me tweets, emails and news alerts, I have to choose to look at them. In fact, I'm looking for more, not less, from this gadget, still trying to work out what the "killer app" might be. Still, it is early days. There is all sorts of software under development for Google Glass - from a recipe app that suggests what you can make from ingredients you see in the supermarket to a translator which will help you understand what's on the menu when you're abroad. I'm going to try out as much as I can and will report back here on my impressions. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.