https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-25619813
CES - and the fruits of the smartphone revolution - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology CES - and the fruits of the smartphone revolution Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 6 January 2014 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-25619813 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Getty Images "Oh my dear, the noise and the people…" is how a British actor supposedly described the experience of war on returning from the trenches. Visitors to the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas may feel much the same, as thousands of new products battle for attention. And the noisiest most crowded event of all is CES Unveiled, a preview show in the Mandalay Bay's giant ballroom, where journalists fight to get a glimpse of what could be some of the hottest new products of 2014. Wandering around the ballroom, past the free food and drink, I tried to work out which gadgets told the story of where technology is heading Two big companies were getting lots of attention - Lenovo for its new Windows 8 tablet, LG for a giant curved smartphone. "Why is it curved?" someone asked me, and I struggled to find an answer. Image copyright Getty Images Then there were any number of devices to monitor what is happening to you and your home. With wearable technology a big theme, a French company was showing off something called June, a bracelet which monitors exposure to sunlight and gives advice on keeping your skin safe. There were lots of connected cameras, used to log your daily activities or watch over your home, and plenty of wireless lighting, allowing tablet and smartphone users to change the mood in the living room with one tap of the finger. Out of left field, came the connected toothbrush which monitors your family's dental hygiene via a smartphone app. Then there was Mother, a system which collects data from sensors which you can stick on anything from the front door to the coffee machine and presents it to you on a tablet or smartphone dashboard. Drones - or UAVs as we must learn to call them - are also much in evidence this year. Just a few weeks ago Amazon's plan to deliver parcels via drone was met with a wave of scepticism. But companies like China's DJI are showing more immediately practical uses for drones, from aerial filming to monitoring crops. We took their Phantom drone outside to put it through its paces, and watched as it hovered three hundred feet above the Las Vegas Convention Centre sending pictures direct to a smartphone. Image copyright Getty Images So, lots of interesting new ideas, but nothing that stood out as a real game changer but then I realised that there was something nearly everything I'd seen had in common - they were connected devices. Just about every new gadget at CES this year is either connected directly to the internet or talks to it via a smartphone. Just a few years ago much of this show was about products that were either aimed at the super-rich or were vapourware, destined never to make it into the shops. Now most of them are available to anyone who has a smartphone - and that's rapidly becoming the majority of the population in many countries. We've gone through an extraordinary revolution over the last five years, but sometimes when you're in the middle of fundamental change it is hard to spot. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.