https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-24622920
Facebook irresponsible over beheading videos, says PM - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Facebook irresponsible over beheading videos, says PM 22 October 2013 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-24622920 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Facebook said in May that it would ban videos showing graphic violence while it carried out a review Prime Minister David Cameron has waded into an escalating row about Facebook's decision to allow videos showing people being decapitated back on its pages. He tweeted that it was "irresponsible" of the social network to post such videos without warning. Facebook reversed a temporary ban on such videos, saying users should be free to watch and condemn such content. The move was also condemned by one of the website's advertisers. The row gained momentum when Mr Cameron tweeted: "It's irresponsible of Facebook to post beheading videos, especially without a warning. They must explain their actions to worried parents." Car-sharing firm Zipcar told the BBC it was disappointed that its adverts had appeared next to one of the videos. "We want you to know that we do not condone this type of abhorrent content being circulated on Facebook," it said in a statement. "We have expressed to Facebook in the past the critical need to block offensive content from appearing and we will continue to engage with them on this important matter." Facebook has since disabled Zipcar and other firms' ads from appearing on the page in question. Controversial events The BBC was alerted to the fact that such content was back online by a reader who said the firm was refusing to remove a page showing a clip of a masked man killing a woman, which is believed to have been filmed in Mexico. Image caption The Prime Minister's tweet was posted a day after Facebook confirmed its change in policy It was posted last week under the title, Challenge: Anybody can watch this video? The social network later confirmed it was allowing such material to be posted again. "Facebook has long been a place where people turn to share their experiences, particularly when they're connected to controversial events on the ground, such as human rights abuses, acts of terrorism and other violent events," said a spokeswoman. "However, since some people object to graphic video of this nature, we are working to give people additional control over the content they see. This may include warning them in advance that the image they are about to see contains graphic content." Following the Prime Minister's tweet she added: "Putting in place content guidelines that enable more than a billion people to express themselves while respecting the rights and feelings of others is a constant challenge. "Our goal is to thoroughly examine our approach and take appropriate action, so that we can strike a delicate balance between enabling people to share information, news and content and protecting the community as a whole." Express concerns But the decision to end the ban has been criticised by Facebook's own advisors and law enforcers. The chief executive of the Family Online Safety Institute, Stephen Balkam - who sits on the network's Safety Advisory Board - said he was "surprised" and "unhappy" at the move and would be contacting the firm to make clear his concerns. Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionStephen Balkam, Family Online Safety Institute: "A beheading clearly crosses a line" After being contacted by a member of the local community, the South Australia Police (Sapol) force has also registered a complaint with Facebook about a video showing the decapitation of a woman. Facebook advised Sapol it would not be removing the video. Shelaye Boothey, director of Sapol's media and public engagement section, told the BBC: "Facebook advised us that they had reviewed the video and found, 'It did not violate our community standard on graphic violence'. Our team then spoke with a representative of Facebook about the decision, but were advised that the video would remain in place as a platform for community debate. "Ultimately this is a decision that Facebook is entitled to make, however anyone concerned with the publishing of the video should continue to express their concerns through the appropriate Facebook channels." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Facebook lets beheading clips return to social network 21 October 2013 Censoring Facebook: Social network's violent video dilemma 10 May 2013 Facebook U-turn after charities criticise decapitation videos 1 May 2013 Related Internet links Facebook Zipcar South Australian police Family Online Safety Institute The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.