https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18263058
Trojan targets Iranian and Syrian dissidents via proxy tool - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Trojan targets Iranian and Syrian dissidents via proxy tool 30 May 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18263058 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Simurgh's developers warn against downloading their software from third-party sites Web users in Iran and Syria aiming to circumvent censorship controls are being targeted with spyware, according to security researchers. A team at the University of Toronto said installation software for the popular proxy tool Simurgh also implanted keylogging spyware. Simurgh is designed to anonymise net use and allow access to blocked sites. However, an added Trojan is said to send data from victims' PCs to a site registered with a Saudi Arabian ISP. This can include the computer operator's username and machine name, as well as every window clicked and every keystroke entered. The developers of Simurgh subsequently posted a warning on their website noting that versions of their software installer downloaded from the file sharing service 4shared had been compromised. Anti-virus firms Sophos and Avira have also updated their malware scanners to detect the code. Crafted code Morgan Marquis-Boire, a technical adviser at the university's Munk School of Global Affairs, said the Isass.exe file allowed "persistent access to the victim's computer" as well as "data exfiltration" capabilities. "This Trojan has been specifically crafted to target people attempting to evade government censorship," he added. Analysis By Nima AkbarpourPresenter, BBC Click Farsi Simurgh is an Iranian stand-alone proxy software for Microsoft Windows. It was created following the Iranian presidential election in 2009 and has been used by people inside the country to bypass censorship. The name Simurgh comes from Persian mythology and symbolises a fantasy bird. The proxy software runs without the need for administrator privileges and is often shared and installed via USB flash drives at internet cafes, allowing citizens access to otherwise blocked information online. It has recently been reported that the software has also circulated among Syrian internet users. It is not clear who is behind the Trojan but it seems it has been created specifically to target people attempting to evade government censorship. "If found to be installed on a computer one must consider all online accounts (email, banking etc) to have been compromised and it is advised that all online passwords be changed as soon as possible." He noted that a side effect of the code was a lack of navigation sounds in Microsoft's Internet Explorer and other applications. A follow-up post by Sophos noted that although the data was being sent to what appeared to be a Saudi Arabian registered entity, some of the servers being used were in the United States. Sophos stressed that the discovery did not mean that the attack had been instigated by parties in the US, as anyone could have rented the server space. Widespread The news comes as investigators probe a malware attack - dubbed Flame - found to have infected computers in Iran and other parts of the Middle East, which is thought to have been designed to steal sensitive data. However, Sophos suggested that the the Simurgh Trojan was likely to have compromised more computers. "Unlike Flame, which is highly targeted malware that has only been found on a handful of computers globally, this malware is targeting users for whom having their communications compromised could result in imprisonment or worse," wrote Chester Wisniewski, senior security advisor at Sophos, on his company's blog . "Many thousands depend on the legitimate Simurgh service, which makes it likely that far more people have been impacted by this malware." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Iran 'finds fix' for sophisticated Flame malware 29 May 2012 Obama unveils tech sanctions against Iran and Syria 23 April 2012 Cyber-attack on BBC leads to suspicion of Iran's involvement 14 March 2012 Related Internet links Simurgh Munk School of Global Affairs Sophos 4shared The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.