https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-24532004
7 reasons why Buzzfeed is the death/saviour of news - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology 7 reasons why Buzzfeed is the death/saviour of news Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 15 October 2013 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-24532004 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Buzzfeed The social news site Buzzfeed is growing at a scary rate, racing past serious news services like the New York Times - and the BBC - as the way younger people hear about what's happening around the world. It's even announced that it will be launching French, Spanish and Portuguese editions, using students and a language teaching platform called Duolingo to translate stories. So, in the spirit of a Buzzfeed list here are seven reasons why we should love/hate it: 1. It's popular with the kids, get over it….. With 85 million visitors in August, it is fast becoming one of the most popular sites on the web. And look at where more than a billion Facebook users get their news - Buzzfeed is top of the list when it comes to stories shared by users, ahead of the Huffington Post, CNN and the BBC. And as the founder Jonah Peretti put it in a memo to staff, it's reaching an important audience: Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionIndependent's Chris Blackhurst: I was looking at '10 cardboard boxes that look like David Cameron' "The world needs sustainable, profitable, vibrant content companies staffed by dedicated professionals; especially content for people that grew up on the web, whose entertainment and news interests are largely neglected by television and newspapers." 2. Yeah, but reaching them with what? "This Baby Elephant Being Reunited With His Dad is The Cutest Thing You'll See Today" and "9 celebrity tweets you missed today" - if that is the future of journalism, heaven help us all… 3. But Buzzfeed is growing up… Some other Buzzfeed headlines today: "The Big Winner in JP Morgan's Earnings - lawyers", "Why These Three Economists Won The Nobel Prize", and "Blackberry's Last Ditch Attempt To Win You Over is Pretty Hilarious". There's business, technology and politics on Buzzfeed, and it's recruiting some serious journalist talent in the US and in London. 4. But clicks come first… Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Buzzfeed's founder, Jonah Peretti When I met Jonah Peretti earlier this year and suggested that the cute and silly stuff was just part of a long term plan to fund serious investigative journalism he laughed. "You don't get it," he said. "We love the funny stories - it's what we're about." And some of the daft stuff is brilliantly done. Look at "The 29 Stages of A Twitterstorm." But serious or silly, it is all about clicks - any Buzzfeed writers who can't build an audience for their stories will soon be heading for the exit. 5. Amazingly, it's making money…. The hardest trick in the modern media is making online news profitable - just ask anyone from The Guardian to The Sun. But as well as employing more than 400 people - technologists, journalists, marketing types - Buzzfeed is, according to Jonah Peretti, now making money. It was "accidentally" profitable once before in 2011, and then spent lots on expansion. Now it looks well placed to become a media powerhouse and without loads of intrusive advertising… 6. Ah, but it mixes advertising and content… Buzzfeed's clever trick is to teach advertisers to write Buzzfeed-like stories which promote their brands without in-your-face messages. On this morning's Today programme Jonah Peretti insisted that there was a clear division between "church and state", advertising and content. That may not be anything like as clear to Buzzfeed readers who click on "13 Signs You're Addicted To Fashion Blogs" without noticing that is sponsored by Blackberry UK. Mind you, whether that does any good to Blackberry is another matter entirely… 7. And here's a cute picture of a dog with a bandaged paw….. Image copyright other Well, if you can't beat them….. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.