https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-11308460
Twitter's first revamp in four years is major overhaul - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Twitter's first revamp in four years is major overhaul By Maggie Shiels Technology reporter, BBC News, Silicon Valley 15 September 2010 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-11308460 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Twitter chief Evan Williams said the new site would improve engagement Twitter has undergone its first major facelift which aims to provide a rich multi-media experience for its 160 million users. The redesign aims to make it easier for users to check out photos and video. As Twitter competes for advertising dollars, it is also seeking to ensure people stay on the website for longer and return more often. Twitter.com now spreads information over two "panes" instead of over one page. One pane or panel is devoted to the 90 million messages or tweets posted on the site every day. The other features images within the text. Until now, most links to photos and video have been displayed on other websites or browser tabs. The firm said deals had been made with 16 photo and video sites including YouTube and Flickr to have their visual content embedded on the site. "You can now take a simple short tweet and get more context and information in less time," Evan Williams, Twitter's chief executive and co-founder, told BBC News. "We liked the old Twitter but we thought we could make it better. There was a lot buried underneath Twitter and now we are bringing all of that to the surface." Engagement During the launch at Twitter's headquarters in San Francisco, Mr Williams revealed that 370,000 new users sign up every day. The benefits to advertisers seem clear if users end up spending more time on the site and coming back more often. Image caption The new format will be rolled out to users over the next couple of weeks The site recently introduced what are known as promoted tweets to allow advertisers such as Starbucks and Best Buy to sponsor tweets that show up when a user searches for certain key words on the service. "What advertisers on Twitter are looking for is engagement, " said Mr Williams. "This will improve that out of the box." He gave as one example the possibility of a movie studio advertising a new film now being able to display a video trailer on Twitter.com. As well as focusing on its own future growth, Twitter has developed a thriving eco-system for a number of start-ups that have built apps to make Twitter easier to use. The fear is that if users spend more time on Twitter.com, it will hurt businesses like TweetDeck, Brizzly and Seesmic. But Mr Williams disagrees. "I don't think it sounds the death knell," he said. "We have made it pretty clear that third-party clients are important and add a lot of value to Twitter. "That doesn't mean we are not going to improve the interfaces we own and control. Our goal is to make people more happy and engaged Twitter users." 'Significant evolution' Analysts and industry watchers attending the launch were largely impressed by the new Twitter.com. "It is one of the slickest web applications I have seen in a long time," said Ben Parr of social media blog Mashable.com. "They have made a very complete product and clearly thought this through very well." MG Siegler of news blog TechCrunch.com agreed. "This is the single biggest change they've ever made to the site since its initial launch," he said. "That's going to rub some people up the wrong way, but overall, my initial impression is that this is definitely an upgrade in pretty much every way." Forrester Research social media analyst Augie Ray called the announcement a "significant evolution". "The long-term effects could be substantial as Twitter focuses on powering growth by improving Twitter consumption," he told the Los Angeles Times. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Twitter woos worried developers 15 April 2010 Twitter unveils advertising plans 13 April 2010 Twitter embeds itself in the web 16 March 2010 Twitter calls lawyer over hacking 16 July 2009 Can Twitter survive the hype cycle? 27 April 2009 Related Internet links Twitter Twitter blog Mashable TechCrunch Forrester Research Los Angeles Times The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.