https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-25234083
Universal credit - an IT fiasco? - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Universal credit - an IT fiasco? Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 5 December 2013 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-25234083 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright PA It's an ambitious plan to transform the benefits system - but it looks as though the technology meant to power universal credit is turning into another great government IT disaster. This morning the work and pensions secretary Iain Duncan Smith told the BBC that the planned 2017 deadline for the programme would probably slip - although the DWP statement still talks optimistically of the continued "safe and secure roll-out" of the scheme. One civil servant close to the situation has painted a rather different picture. He tells me that DWP staff at the frontline are doing a heroic job using the IT but they are "struggling so much with the number of times they have to re-key, systems are crashing. They're not joined up, they just can't cope with the messy reality of people's lives". The IT system that the DWP is using at the moment is the one severely criticised in a National Audit Office report. It has been developed mainly by big outside contractors such as Accenture and IBM at a cost of more than £300m. Some believe much of that money will have to be written off. As with many other IT disasters, this is about management rather than technology Now what the DWP calls a new "enhanced system" is being developed, with far more in-house involvement. Insiders say this is a good move - but wonder why the department did not go down this route in the first place. After all, the government had signalled that the days of huge IT projects, where outlandish sums were handed to big contractors, were over. But as Iain Duncan Smith makes clear in his statement, both systems - the old one run by Accenture et al, and the new enhanced version - will now run in tandem. Some of the old technology, according to my insider, may be of use, but the effect is to postpone the reckoning of just how much money has been wasted: "They're carrying on as if nothing has changed... they're still spending money trying to make the existing system work because that's what the DWP leadership wants." Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Iain Duncan Smith So, just as with many other IT disasters, this is about management rather than technology. It's been reported that the secretary of state has fallen out with his senior civil servants, with Whitehall's perceived inability to deliver on policy at the heart of their dispute. The DWP is not alone in finding the bigger the project, the more likely it is to go wrong. Look across the Atlantic to the failures of the Obamacare website - or indeed rather closer to home at the BBC's own Digital Media Initiative, written off at a cost of £98m. One common lesson seems to be that you can't just throw money at a project or outsource it to major suppliers. You have to have the skills in-house to understand the problems you are trying to solve and how technology may help. And, for Whitehall at least, you need more respect and higher status within the civil service for the experts who do have those skills. My insider's conclusion: "Never again should we be spending £300m the way they spent it - as if they were buying a motorway bridge. This way of doing it is broken - it just doesn't work." View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.