https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-11382469
Twitter scrambles to block worms - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Twitter scrambles to block worms By Jonathan Fildes Technology reporter, BBC News 21 September 2010 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-11382469 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Sarah Brown, wife of former PM Gordon Brown, was one of those affected Twitter has patched a flaw in its website that was being exploited to pump out pop-up messages and links to porn sites. Initially, users only had to move their mouse over a message containing a link - not click it - to open it in the browser. The code was spread by worms, self-replicating, malicious pieces of code. Thousands of users were caught out by the flaw, including Sarah Brown, the wife of the UK's former Prime Minister. "This issue is now resolved. We apologise to those who may have encountered it," wrote Bob Lord, security chief at the firm, in a blog post. "Users may still see strange retweets in their timelines caused by the exploit. However, we are not aware of any issues related to it that would cause harm to computers or their accounts." The firm said there was no need for users to change their passwords "because user account information was not compromised". People using the mobile web site or third-party Twitter software - such as Tweetdeck - were unaffected by the bug. The flaw comes just one week after Twitter rolled out a major redesign of its site. 'No regrets' The code exploited what is known as a cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability, a flaw in a website that can be exploited by relatively simple code. In the case of the most recent incident, the command - written in a programming language called Javascript - automatically directed users to another website, some of which contained pornography. The malicious links looked like a block of colour or a random URL that contained the code "onmouseover", which triggered when the cursor hovered over the link. "Other users took this one step further and added code that caused people to retweet the original Tweet without their knowledge," wrote Mr Lord. The first self-replicating code, or worm, seems to have been written by a developer called Magnus Holm. "I simply wanted to exploit the hole without doing any 'real' harm," he told BBC News. "It started off as 'ha, no way this is going to work'." It was only a matter of time before more serious worms started Magnus Holm He said the flaw had been identified by others and had already been used for other means. "There were several other tiny hacks using the exploit - I only created the worm," he said. Mr Holm said he had seen his worm passed around in at least 200,000 messages. Others soon copied his code using "other nasty or smart tricks" he said, including directing people to porn sites. "It was only a matter of time before more serious worms started." A Twitter user called Matsta appeared to have spread one variant. Their account has now been suspended. Mr Holm said he had no regrets about his actions and was "not sure" whether he would receive a call from Twitter. It is not the first time the service has suffered an attack. In April 2009, another worm spread links to a rival site, again showing unwanted messages on infected user accounts. Graham Cluley, a researcher at security firm Sophos, told BBC News that Twitter needs "much tighter control" over what users can put in a tweet to prevent similar problems in the future. He also warned users to continue to be on their guard, as once an exploit had been found there would be a raft of hackers looking for new ones or ways to circumvent the patch. "We've seen it in the past," he said. "When Twitter says they have fixed a flaw, we see a new exploit again and again." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Twitter's first revamp in four years is major overhaul 15 September 2010 Twitter hit by security breaches 6 January 2009 Hacked blogger seeks Russia probe 10 August 2009 'Iranian cyber army' hits Twitter 18 December 2009 Around the BBC BBC - WebWise - What is an internet worm Related Internet links Sophos blog Twitter Blog Twitter Status The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.