https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-52037573
Coronavirus: Millions yet to receive UK government's Covid-19 text - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Coronavirus: Millions yet to receive UK government's Covid-19 text By Leo Kelion Technology desk editor 25 March 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-52037573 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Image copyright Getty Images Millions of mobile users in the UK have yet to receive the government's text message alert about coronavirus. The SMS - telling people to stay at home - began being sent early on Tuesday morning. But Vodafone has confirmed it only expects to complete the process later this Wednesday. One expert said that it highlights the shortcoming of not having a system that can flash a message to people's phones simultaneously. Vodafone is the only one of the UK's big four networks that has not finished the task. Three told the BBC it had delivered the text to a total of 10.7 million phone numbers by early afternoon on Tuesday. EE said it had also completed the process yesterday, having transmitted about 1,000 messages a second. O2 also confirmed that all its subscribers had been sent the post. Vodafone said it was still sending out texts in batches of millions an hour, but needed until some time Wednesday afternoon to finish the process. "We have sent out the majority of messages and aim to complete the process soon," said a spokesman. "We did pause sending them out overnight so as not to disturb people whilst they were sleeping." The firm temporarily halted the process at 20:00GMT to avoid waking phone-owning children. It needs to send a total of about 18 million texts. The government's full message read: GOV.UK CORONAVIRUS ALERT. New rules in force now: you must stay at home. More info and exemptions at gov.uk/coronavirus Stay at home. Protect the NHS. Save lives. LIVE: Latest updates A SIMPLE GUIDE: What are the symptoms? AVOIDING CONTACT: Should I self-isolate? LOOK-UP TOOL: Check cases in your area MAPS AND CHARTS: Visual guide to the outbreak The Cabinet Office ran trials in 2014 for a system which bypassed the mobile networks and sent messages directly to people's phones, but it was never developed. One operator has suggested that it was considered too expensive. Other countries, however, have financed such technology and used it during the current crisis. Image caption New Zealand's Emergency Mobile Alert system allows it to send messages via cell broad technology to compatible handsets Ben Wood is a telecoms consultant who helped launch Vodafone's text message service in the early 1990s, when he used to work for the firm. "SMS is attractive to the government because it's a lowest common denominator messaging solution - it can reach many of the most vulnerable people in society who only have a basic feature phone. "But it's not really fit for purpose because the texts have to be sent out sequentially, meaning people get them at different times. "What we really need is a wireless emergency system like they have in the US, which would allow the government to get the same message to everyone at once - not just for coronavirus, but for things like major weather disruption, that pose a danger to life." One benefit of such a system is that the messages can be geographically targeted, meaning they can be limited to a specific zone in a city to - for example - help find a missing child. However, not all mobile phones or networks support the facility. Related Topics Vodafone Coronavirus pandemic Mobile phones Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Coronavirus: Mobile networks send 'stay at home' text 24 March 2020 Top Stories Trump 'considering quarantine on New York' The president says he is considering quarantining the state, but its governor expresses concern. 28 March 2020 UK will do well to keep deaths under 20,000 - health official 28 March 2020 Lack of medical supplies 'a national shame' 28 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now ‘Beaten and abused for doing my job in lockdown’ A snapshot of American life under lockdown Five glimmers of hope to beat the coronavirus blues Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus Video Clubbing in the time of coronavirus The saxophone legend who inspired a disco groove Your top tips for a weekend indoors ★★★★★ Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.