https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16158986
Google's Motorola Mobility takeover: EU delays ruling - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Google's Motorola Mobility takeover: EU delays ruling 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16158986 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Google says its takeover of Motorola will strengthen its patent portfolio Google's takeover of Motorola Mobility faces a delay after EU regulators suspended their review of the deal. The European Commission has revealed that it halted the approval process last week, and requested more information. Motorola split in two earlier this year. Google subsequently offered $12.5bn in August for the part that makes phones and tablet computers. The EU has the power to block the tie-up or demand that it be amended. The takeover will give Google access to more than 17,000 of Motorola Mobility's patents. Chief executive Larry Pagehas said the move will"enable us to better protect Android from anti-competitive threats from Microsoft, Apple and other companies". Last week Motorola Mobility won thefirst round of a separate patentbattle against Apple in Germany's courts. That could potentially give Google leverage to negotiate a wider settlement. Stopped clock The European Commission had originally intended to rule on the tie-up by 10 January. It told the BBC it would publish a new deadline at a later point. "The deadline is suspended because the commission needs from Google certain documents that are essential to its evaluation of the transaction," said Amelia Torres, spokeswoman for the competition commissioner. "Once the commission has all the necessary information, it will restart the clock and publish a new phase one deadline on the website." Legal experts say it is not unusual for the commission to take this step. "It's quite common to stop the clock - it's done in a significant minority of cases," said Simon Holmes, head of EU and competition law at SJ Berwin. "The question that will be in a lot of investors' minds is whether or not they will be able to clear it in a phase one investigation, or whether they will refer it to a more detailed phase two investigation." The US Department of Justice must also rule on the takeover before it can be finalised. Patent analysis Google said that it did not believe the latest news signalled that the deal would be blocked. "The European Commission has asked for more information, which is routine, while they review our Motorola Mobility acquisition," a spokeswoman said. "We're confident the commission will conclude that this acquisition is good for competition and we'll be working closely and co-operatively with them as they continue their review." The regulator has already sent out questionnaires about the takeover to other firms. Among the questions it asked was whether Google might favour Motorola Mobility over other Android-based device manufacturers after the deal was finalised. Experts say that concern is unlikely to derail the deal as Google would effectively be "cutting off its nose to spite its face" if it annoyed other Android partners who could switch to rival system software. However, the issues raised by Motorola's patents could cause the European regulator to seek a longer review. "Frankly I don't see how that issue can be readily resolved... because that's the issue that is more difficult to analyse," said SJ Berwin's Mr Holmes. "There are thousands of patents. I don't know that Motorola itself knows the precise value and validity of all those patents. So how can the commission assess that in the terms of a relatively short merger review?" Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Motorola wins Apple wireless patent fight in Germany 8 March 2012 Motorola sued over mobile patents 7 October 2011 Google to buy Motorola Mobility 15 August 2011 Related Internet links Google Motorola Mobility Apple Microsoft EU Commission SJ Berwin The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.