https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-25049586
Consoles: One box to rule them all? - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Consoles: One box to rule them all? Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 22 November 2013 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-25049586 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionRival games consoles battle it out A titanic battle for the living room is under way, as Microsoft's Xbox One and Sony's Playstation 4 try to offer us the all-purpose device that will give us all the entertainment we need. The convergence we've been told about for years is happening and it looks like a games console. Well, that has been the narrative for quite a while - but I'm not so sure it is true any more. I've a hunch that the quest to produce one box that will be all things to all people may be doomed to failure. Or at least may end up as a minority pursuit. But Microsoft isn't buying that - after all its Xbox One is just the latest move by the software titan to try to put itself at the centre of the living room. It started with the PC - Windows Media Centre was first released back in 2001, and since then I've been shown around any number of Microsoft-connected homes with a computer nestling under the TV. What I haven't seen is any real homes with a similar setup. Image copyright Reuters Image caption Coming to a living room near you Image copyright Getty Images Image caption All you need? But the Xbox has been a more successful launchpad for the company's living-room ambitions, especially since the launch of Kinect, which brought voice and gesture control to TV as well as game play. Now that has all been made far more sophisticated in the Xbox One, with a new interface allowing you to hook up the console to your cable or satellite box and play live TV through an interface that feels like Windows 8. Sony has long had similar ambitions for its console, and with the Playstation 3 appeared to score a significant victory over Xbox when its Blu-Ray format - a key feature of the device - won out against the rival HD-DVD. That made it more expensive than the Xbox 360, but with its music and movie divisions supplying plenty of content, Sony appeared well placed to move ahead of Microsoft and put itself at the centre of the multimedia home. But somehow, it seemed that the game-playing experience rather than anything else remained the core reason why anyone bought a console - and the PS3 and the Xbox 360 were pretty much neck-and-neck in sales over the years. And Microsoft was forced to beat a hasty retreat earlier this year when its first unveiling of the Xbox One put a heavy emphasis on its multimedia skills. Hardcore gamers - always likely to be the early adopters - made their displeasure felt, and now the marketing has changed. When I interviewed a Microsoft executive this week he was keen to stress that the new Xbox was the best place to play games - oh, and yes, it did all sorts of other cool stuff too. Sony, by contrast, has been consistent in marketing the Playstation 4 as a games machine - its motion sensor camera comes as an extra rather than being core to the experience like Microsoft's Kinect. This approach seems to have worked, with a record-breaking launch in the US and more advanced orders for the PS4 in the UK than for the more expensive Xbox One. Both consoles seem destined to do well - but neither is likely to replace all the other boxes under the TV in most homes. Whatever the industry may tell you about the ever widening audience for games in all their forms, many people just won't want an Xbox or Playstation controller to be their route into a night in front of the telly. And having tried the Xbox One's voice control, it is clever, but in my view not quite intuitive enough to persuade an older person like me to throw away the remote control. And there's the dilemma for Microsoft and Sony - pleasing traditional gamers while fulfilling their ambitions to rule the living room may not be possible. Keen gamers will be happy enough to have all sorts of other bells and whistles with their consoles but will rarely use them. But in households where there's a combination of active gamers and passive TV viewers - probably most of them - there could be friction. Imagine a scene where a teenager is playing FIFA when mum walks in and shouts "Xbox - go to live TV". Not pretty. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.