https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-32036322
Facebook opens up Messenger to third-party apps - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Facebook opens up Messenger to third-party apps 25 March 2015 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-32036322 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Facebook Image caption Mark Zuckerberg said Messenger had more than 600 million regular users Facebook has confirmed that it is opening up its Messenger service to third-party developers, allowing them to add functions of their own. It effectively completes the four-year-old software's transformation from a "lightweight" chat app, spun off from the main Facebook site, into a fully-fledged "platform" of its own. More than 40 new add-on apps have already been developed so far. But one expert said there was a risk Messenger would become bloated. Image copyright Facebook Image caption Messenger users will be able to add new types of posts generated with third-party services Messenger has already proved controversial with some users of the social network, who have complained about having to switch between two apps to stay in touch with their Facebook friends. Facebook's founder Mark Zuckerberg announced the move at his firm's F8 developers conference in San Francisco. He said more than 600 million people already used Messenger at least once a month to express themselves, and that allowing other social networks and services to directly post to it would make "conversations better". Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionWATCH: Mark Zuckerberg goes through some of the plans for Facebook's Messenger app Among the new apps unveiled are ways to post: Looped animated images known as Gifs sourced from the sports TV service ESPN and elsewhere Still images from the picture hosting site Imgur Computer-generated animal cartoon messages with recorded audio via Talking Tom Forecasts from the Weather Channel service E-cards from the humour site Jibjab Audio files from the Sound Clip It builds on a move to allow US-based users to send money to and from each other via Messenger, which Facebook announced last week, and the earlier inclusion of Voip (voice over internet protocol) calls and stickers. Mr Zuckerberg also revealed plans to launch an associated service called Businesses on Messenger. Using the app instead of email, the public will be able to hold conversations with companies from which they buy goods, or have other interactions with. Image copyright Facebook Image caption Businesses will be able to have conversations with their customers via Messenger Facebook suggested this could include receiving delivery status updates, organising the return of an order and asking follow-up questions. The company is far from the first to attempt to turn a messaging app into a wider platform. Image copyright WeChat Image caption WeChat allows users to buy cinema tickets and choose their seats China's WeChat service has gone even further by allowing its users to book taxis, pick cinema seats and find nearby restaurants among other actions. But one expert suggested Facebook should be cautious about the rate at which it adds further facilities to Messenger. "There's a potential risk that they are going to overload Messenger with too many functions and none of them become that important - it really depends on how extensive they get with the features that they add over time," said Brian Blau from the Gartner tech consultancy. "We have seen something like that happen with Facebook's Timeline, where you have all these different people competing for your attention. "So, Facebook won't want to over-bloat, but it could enable all kinds of interesting scenarios where you can integrate messaging with other apps and services." Image copyright Facebook ANALYSIS Richard Taylor, North America technology correspondent Right now many of the Messenger apps look fun, if a bit gimmicky. But over time these new interactions will give Facebook another source of rich information about a user's interests - and thereby the potential to attract more ad revenue. Facebook would have taken inspiration from companies like China's WeChat and Japan's Line, which have proven successful in building both content and business services atop their core messenger offerings. But Messenger for Business is an ambitious plan. It is asking users to supplant more tried-and-tested means like email. Other communications behemoths like Skype tried - unsuccessfully - to become places to reinvent communications between businesses and their customers. Will users be happy to shift their business interactions over to Facebook - a platform where, until now, they have been used to dealing primarily with friends? Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionWATCH: Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg shows off "spherical video" which will soon be supported on the site. Other announcements made at F8 included: Spherical video - users will soon be able to interact with 360-degree videos in their Facebook News Feeds. These are the type of immersive clips that might have been made for virtual reality headsets. YouTube recently added similar functionality Share Sheet - third-party apps will be able to add a new feature that allows them to easily share their own content to Facebook's various services LiveRail - a way for firms to target their video ads using Facebook's demographic data about its users. Facebook bought LiveRail, which used to be an independent firm, in July for a reported $500m (£336m) Related Topics Facebook Mark Zuckerberg Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Facebook revamps its takedown guidelines 16 March 2015 Facebook messenger app payments 'revealed' 6 October 2014 Facebook new Messenger service reaches 500 million users 11 November 2014 Related Internet links Facebook Gartner The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.