https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17831725
Google Drive to offer free storage in the cloud - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Google Drive to offer free storage in the cloud 24 April 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17831725 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Google's rate for 100GB of space is cheaper than Dropbox but more expensive than SkyDrive Google has launched a new consumer service offering up to 16TB (terabytes) of storage for photos and other online content. Dubbed Google Drive , the service goes head to head with rival cloud services such as Dropbox and Microsoft's SkyDrive. It offers 5GB (gigabytes) of storage for free. People pay on a rising scale for more space. Experts say that Google is "late" to the market. 16TB of space could hold more than 4,000 two-hour movies coded in 720p high-definition resolution. Cloud living "Today, we're introducing Google Drive - a central place where you can create, share, collaborate and keep all of your stuff," said Sundar Pichai, senior vice president of Chrome and Apps in a blog post. "Whether you're working with a friend on a joint research project, planning a wedding with your fiancé or tracking a budget with roommates, you can do it in Drive." The service will allow users to upload and access videos, photos, Google Docs, PDFs and other documents. It can be installed to a Mac or PC or as an app to an Android phone or tablet. Google said that it was working on an app for Apple's mobile operating system, which should be available in the coming weeks. For blind users, Drive can be accessed with a screen reader. "Google Drive will hit some competitors very hard and shake up the market," said Hanns Kohler-Kruner from tech research firm Gartner. "It will also create another stream of more focused and potential ad revenue for Google around the content of personal files on Google Drive." Image caption Videos stored on Google Drive become available on Google+, helping to promote the social network Grand canyon Google will draw on its search expertise to help differentiate the service. Users will be able search by keyword and filter by file type, owner or activity. Drive will also recognise text in scanned documents using optical character recognition (OCR) technology. This would allow someone, for example, to upload a scanned image of an old newspaper clipping and search for a word from the text of the news article. Google Drive will also use image recognition. "If you drag and drop photos from your Grand Canyon trip to Drive, the next time you search for Grand Canyon, photos of it will pop up," said Mr Pichai. The first 5GB of storage comes free. After that users can choose to upgrade to 25GB for $2.49 (£1.50) a month, 100GB for $4.99 a month, 1TB for $49.99 or 16TB for $799.99. When users upgrade to a paid account, their Gmail account storage will automatically expand to 25GB. By contrast, Microsoft offers yearly contracts. It charges $50 for maximum storage of 100GB. Dropbox offers individual users up to 100GB at a rate of $19.99 per month or $199 per year. It also sells larger amounts to groups with the cost and size determined by how many people share the space. Facebook? Cloud services have become hugely popular as people seek to access content from a variety of places and devices. Image caption Dropbox helped popularise the idea of storage in the cloud, but risks being undercut by its rivals Richard Edwards, principal analyst at research firm Ovum, said that Google was "very late" to the market but that its move could spur others. "Facebook doesn't have a cloud service but this may prompt it into an acquisition," he said. "If Facebook was to buy Dropbox that would be a game-changer." In anticipation of Google's announcement, rivals updated their own services. Dropbox now allows users to give non-members access to files via emailed links. Until now it had required both parties to sign up to its service and have shared folders. Microsoft has also improved its SkyDrive service. Among other features, it has integrated the drive into Windows Explorer and Apple's Finder so that it works as an extension of the desktop. It also added capability to access files stored on the drive from an iPad as well as the iPhone and Windows Phone-based handsets. Google Drive has been blocked in China, joining YouTube and Google+ as well as other non-Google services including Twitter, Dropbox, Facebook and Foursquare which all fall foul of the country's firewall. Beijing restricts access to prevent "instability", although some users get round the restrictions by using VPN (virtual private network) services. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Google privacy changes 'in breach of EU law' 8 March 2012 Small businesses harness the power of cloud computing 2 March 2012 Apple iTunes match music service launches with outage 8 March 2012 Related Internet links Gartner The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.