https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-25929537
Israel diary: Cyber diplomacy - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Israel diary: Cyber diplomacy Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 28 January 2014 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-25929537 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Reuters Image caption Mirrors at the Israeli start-up NewCO2fuel, near Tel Aviv What should countries do if they want a mutually profitable relationship with a highly innovative economy? Her Majesty's ambassador to Israel thinks the answer is to get immersed in the country's tech sector and fund trips which see some of the smartest Israeli start-ups visit the UK. That might sound like a strange use of money - helping another country's companies expand overseas. But when I sat and chatted with Matthew Gould it seemed to make a lot of sense. In the back garden of his Tel Aviv home, as his two Labradors - one British, one Israeli - played around us he explained the thinking behind the UK/Israeli tech hub. Specialists in a number of areas - media, biotech, clean energy - have been recruited in Israel to scope out key companies in various sectors. The idea is that they are hooked up with British firms and can then work together to improve profitability and export to third countries. There've already been a number of successes - the pharmaceuticals giant GSK is working with Israeli scientists on drugs research, while Thames Water has begun a partnership with Israeli expertise in a country where access to clean water and making the most of scarce resources is a vital issue. But perhaps the most important aspect of the policy is changing the mindset of Israeli companies which always look first to the United States for both exports and inspiration. If stronger ties can be built with the UK, then those firms may look to our companies as useful partners in their attempt to enter markets like China. There's a lot more to do - the ambassador is hoping the tech hub can work with the Arab minority in Israel which has just started to embark on the start-up road. Its members are exempt from military service, so many miss out on the contacts and technology training that brings. But Matthew Gould's example is being followed by other UK embassies keen to promote a message more sophisticated than "invest in us! Buy our stuff." Now on a rather wet and English morning in Tel Aviv, I'm off to meet some of this city's many start-up companies. What they all have in common is that they immediately look at the world as their marketplace - after all a country with just seven million citizens is never going to be enough to satisfy their ambitions. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.