https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51673298
Tech Tent - does fake news about the coronavirus matter? - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Tech Tent - does fake news about the coronavirus matter? Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 28 February 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51673298 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic It has been this week's biggest news story around the world and fears about the spread of the coronavirus have sent stock markets plunging. But rumours and misinformation about the disease have spread rapidly on social media - and on Tech Tent we ask whether this matters. Stream or download the latest Tech Tent podcast Listen live every Friday at 14:00 GMT on the BBC World Service As I found when I delved into various Facebook groups and scoured YouTube videos, people who believe in one conspiracy theory are often prone to finding others credible. So in groups set up by campaigners who believe vaccines or the new 5G mobile phone networks are a conspiracy against the public, you can now find posts accusing governments of engineering Covid-19 in a laboratory or that 5G has weakened people's immune systems making them vulnerable to the virus. Now you might think this was relatively harmless - after all people have always believed outlandish things and most of the world just laughs and moves on. But Paul Hunter, an epidemiologist and professor of health protection at the University of East Anglia tells us misinformation can be dangerous. He points to the lessons learned from the Ebola virus in West Africa in 2016. "People who believed conspiracy theories about Ebola were less likely to adopt safe practices, especially safe funeral practices. And so they were putting themselves at an increased risk of getting the infection and ultimately increased risk of dying." It is only a few years since we were being told that the river of web data would help us track a disease more effectively. Google Flu Trends tried to predict the pattern of influenza outbreaks by examining search activity. Prof Hunter says he and some colleagues used Google to examine incidences of the norovirus a few years ago, and found it seemed to predict an epidemic several weeks before the official data. Image copyright YouTube Image caption One YouTube video suggested the coronavirus was a testbed for 5G You might think that in our ultra-connected world, we would all be better informed about the disease and what steps we need to take. But Paul Hunter says that while we may be getting more information it is not necessarily of a higher quality. "You now have to try and work out, is this real information? Is it poor information? If it's real information, is it useful?" he says. "Twenty years ago with Sars, information did come out, but it came out much more slowly. And often that information was more reliable because it had been checked more before publication." This makes the provision of accurate information by news organisations all the more important. But some people are probably immune to facts. Within hours of my blog about this issue being published, it was being denounced as "fake news" on an anti-5G Facebook group. Related Topics Facebook Coronavirus pandemic 5G YouTube Fake News Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Tech Tent - has Silicon Valley still got it? 7 February 2020 Coronavirus: Fake news is spreading fast 26 February 2020 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.