https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16243414
BT sues Google over Android 'patent infringements' - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology BT sues Google over Android 'patent infringements' 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16243414 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption BT claims that the Android system, which powers smartphones and tablets, infringes its patents UK-based telecoms group BT is suing Google in the US over claims that six of its patents have been infringed. The British company's complaints centre on technologies at the core of Google's Android mobile system, search site, and a wide range of other services. BT is seeking unspecified damages and an injunction against Google's continued use of its innovations. The move marks the latest patent attack on Android following legal action by Apple, Microsoft, Oracle and others. BT said it currently had a portfolio of around 5,600 patents and patent applications. Its complaint states that it has invested heavily in mobile technologies and related services over the past two decades. It then claims that its resulting patents have been infringed by Google's search engines, Android system, Google+ social network, eBooks, Maps, Offers, Docs, Places, Gmail, Doubleclick advertising management system, AdWords advertisement listing program and other services. Innovation The six patents involved relate to location-based services, navigation and guidance information and personalised access to services and content. One example of an alleged infringement is Android's ability to allow a music download if a smartphone is connected to a wi-fi network, but to prevent it when the device only has access to a 3G data link. Another example is Google Maps ability to make different information available at different levels of zoom. "BT can confirm that it has commenced legal proceedings against Google by filing a claim with the US District Court of Delaware for patent infringement," a company statement said. "This is about protecting BT's investment in its intellectual property rights and innovation. It is a well-considered claim and we believe there is a strong case of infringement." Google said it planned to fight the lawsuit. "We believe these claims are without merit, and we will defend vigorously against them," a Google spokesman said. Patent licences Legal experts say Google's rapid expansion into a wide range of technologies has made lawsuits of this kind all but inevitable. "There is a lot of money and a huge market in the delivery of mobile phone services and there is a huge battle to achieve marketshare," Vicki Salmon, chair of the UK Chartered Institute of Patent Attorneys (CIPA) told the BBC. "In amongst this BT may have licensed its technology to some people and is not yet getting the royalties it wants. So there are a lot of battles over who gets what cut out of the market." A spokesman for BT could not confirm to whom it had licensed its mobile technologies, but noted that the firm had sold patents to third parties in the past. Consultant, Florian Mueller, has flagged up on his Foss Patent blog that Apple launched a complaint against the Taiwanese Android-device maker HTC five months agousing a "portable computers" patentit bought from BT in 2008. July's $4.5bn (£2.9bn) sale of Nortel's data networking and other patents highlighted how much value companies attach to these kinds of property rights. Hyperlink setback BT would not confirm whether it intended to launch parallel legal action in the European courts. Patent watchers said it may be content to bide its time. "If they get an injunction against Google in the States, in a sense it's cutting off the Hydra at its head," said Ms Salmon. "When you are looking at the sale of products sometimes you need to go around country by country and knock out each sale, but if you can knock out the manufacturing base then you don't have to litigate in each country". BT's previous efforts to defend its patents have not always been successful. In 2002 a US judge struck down a legal challenge against Prodigy Communications in which BThad claimed to own the patent to internet hyperlinks. Google's takeover of Motorola Mobility may also complicate matters. The deal is set to deliver the search giant more than 17,000 patents - potentially providing an opportunity to countersue if it can find an instance where BT has infringed one of Motorola's innovations. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Motorola wins Apple wireless patent fight in Germany 8 March 2012 German HTC retailers are threatened with patent lawsuit 8 March 2012 LG signs deal with patent giant 8 November 2011 Related Internet links Google BT Apple Android Microsoft Oracle Microsoft Foss Patents CIPA Nortel The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.