https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17311707
Google denies app store payment policies have changed - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Google denies app store payment policies have changed 12 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17311707 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Google Play purchases must be made using Google Wallet Google says it has made no changes to its Android Market payment policies. This follows a Reuters report that Google threatened to remove developers' software from its store unless they accepted payments exclusively using its own payment service. Google told the BBC its app distribution agreement had always made developers use Google Wallet. But the internet search giant refused to say if it has started enforcing its payment rules more rigorously. The story emerged just days after Android Market was merged into Google Play, an online store similar to Apple's iTunes. It offers music, movies and music as well as apps for its Android mobile phone operating system. Todd Hooper, chief executive of Seattle-based Zipline Games, said that Google appeared to be changing its approach to payments. "On Android it used to be laissez faire - you could use any payment provider you liked," he said. "It's probably naive of developers to think they could keep choosing different payment providers." Reuters reported that several developers that offered payment methods such as Paypal, Zong and Boku had been warned that their apps faced removal from Android Market. An email sent by Google in August to a developer and obtained by Reuters said the developer had 30 days to comply, otherwise the developer's apps would be "suspended" from the market. System 'benefits' Unlike Apple, Google does not vet every app before it is made available for sale in its app store. That means that Google can normally enforce its policy after an app has appeared in the store. Apple has taken a far stricter approach to app payments, insisting that all purchases are made using its iTunes payment system, including purchases of ebooks and magazine subscriptions. "This is one of the things that has helped Apple succeed," said Charles Hudson of Bionic Panda Games, a San Francisco-based games company. "Every single developer is using the Apple payment system. Google sees the benefits that provides for the Apple platform and wants to create a similar system." Research in Motion, which makes Blackberry phones, allows multiple payment methods for apps sold in its Blackberry App World. Google only permits alternative payment services for certain types of "in-app" transactions made using apps sold in its store. These include purchases of physical goods or digital content such as ebooks or movies. These exceptions allow retailers such as Amazon to sell their goods from within their own apps without having to pay a cut to Google. Developers are still free to sell applications using any payment methods that they want from alternative sites such as their own web-based stores. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Google Play to take on iTunes 7 March 2012 Amazon launches web Kindle reader 10 August 2011 Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.