https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17618495
Google unveils Project Glass augmented reality eyewear - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Google unveils Project Glass augmented reality eyewear 4 April 2012 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17618495 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption The eyewear appears to have a streamlined design despite all the functionality it is suggested to include Google has revealed details of its research into augmented reality glasses. It posted abrief introduction to Project Glass, photos and a concept videoat its Google+ social network. The images show a minimalist design with a microphone and partly-transparent video screen that places information over the view from the users' right eye. The product's developers said they wanted feedback on the idea. They did not give any indication about when the device might go on sale or what it would cost. "A group of us... started Project Glass to build this kind of technology, one that helps you explore and share your world, putting you back in the moment," said a statement from Google X - the firm's experimental lab. "We're sharing this information now because we want to start a conversation and learn from your valuable input." Guided walks The video suggests icons offering 14 different services will be offered to the user when the glasses are first put on, including information about the weather, their location and diary appointments. It appears that several of these services are either triggered by an action taken by the user or the situation they are in. The film shows one user being reminded he has a date that evening when he looks up at a blank wall, and then warns him that there is a 10% chance it will rain when he looks out of the window. Image caption The video suggests that the device would involve a GPS chip to help deliver location specific alerts An alert pops up when a friend sends a text asking if he wants to meet up later in the day. When the user dictates a reply a microphone symbol is superimposed over much of his view. Other functions include Google Maps showing a route to the wearer's destination with small arrows keeping him on track, the ability to take a photo of what he is looking at with an option to share it with friends, and a video conference service. The glasses are also shown to allow music and other audio to be heard, although they do not appear to include earphones. Shrink to fit There had been lots of speculation about the project with some reports describing it as an "open secret", but this is the first time Google has confirmed details of what it was working on. The New York Times had previously suggested that the first set of glasses would go on salebefore the end of the yearfor somewhere between $250-$600 (£157-£378) - but experts say that the technology shown in the video may still be some way off being ready for market. Chris Green, principal technology analyst at Davies Murphy Group Europe, told the BBC that other tech firms such as Brother had attempted to pioneer the concept - but became unstuck because their versions had required users to carry separate processing and battery equipment that plugged into their glasses. "There are huge opportunities for tailored advertising with augmented reality systems - especially if they have in-built GPS location tracking," he said. "The monetisation opportunities would be enormous - but there are still big issues involved with shrinking the technology and making the computer that receives and processes the data truly portable." Image caption Google suggests the glasses could help users find where products are located in shops Rival eyewear Google may have competition if it works out how to shrink the electronics involved. In 2008, Apple patented alaser-based "head mounted display system"that it suggested could stream video from its iPod among other features. More recently, Patent Bolt revealed that Sony and Microsoft have patented ideas to createminiature displays to go over users' eyes. They were described as being suitable for "gaming and beyond". Google has previously revealed details of futuristic concepts years before they are ready for market. The firm announced in 2010 that it had tested a self-driving car on the streets of California - but has not said when it might start selling such vehicles. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Hewlett Packard opens doors to its HP Labs UK research base 8 March 2012 Augmented reality takes off in US Google tests 'intelligent' cars Related Internet links Google Brother Apple Microsoft Sony Patent Bolt Davies Murphy Group The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.