https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-27223088
Do you want to know a secret? - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Do you want to know a secret? Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 30 April 2014 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-27223088 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Thinkstock I've been hearing some secrets. Right now, one person is telling me, "I listen to Dolly Parton every morning before leaving the house." Another says "80% of the time, I'm looking at myself when I Skype with someone". And a third says, "whenever I am home alone, I talk to my cat in an American accent." All of these slightly weird and frankly rather dull messages popped up in Secret, a gossip and rumour app which has been all the rage in Silicon Valley for a while and is now making its first foray overseas with a UK launch. It is also coming to Ireland, New Zealand and Australia. I installed Secret last week after it showed its apparent usefulness by breaking a technology industry news story. Two days before the executive behind Google+ announced his departure, Secret had a message from someone saying "Vic Gundotra is interviewing". To a British reader that sounded as if he was recruiting - but in the US it meant he was himself looking for a new job. Underneath the post, a noisy debate was taking place, with some apparent Google insiders badmouthing Gundotra while others rushed to his defence. An intriguing glimpse of the tensions inside one of the world's most important companies - or just some worthless back-biting from people mouthing off behind a cloak of anonymity? Image copyright Secret Then there was the story about Nike apparently scaling back its plans for the Fuelband activity tracker. That too emerged first on Secret when someone posted "the douchebag execs at Nike are going to lay off a bunch of the eng team who developed The Fuelband and other Nike+ stuff." Again, there seemed to be some well-informed gossip in the comments about what was going on inside the company. The idea behind the app is that you can post anything you want to say anonymously, but as it mines the contacts on your phone - with your permission - you can see if secrets are posted by friends (although you have to guess who they might be). So far, it's proved a hit in a very limited area - the feverish world of Silicon Valley technology firms. Whether that will translate to the UK is an interesting question. Unless it spreads quickly through early adopters in places like the Tech City crowd in London - or perhaps inside some gossipy UK organisation - there may not be much for users to chew on. Mind you, the scurrilous gossip about named individuals that we've seen on the US app may prove rather more perilous for Secret under UK libel laws. The other risk for the people behind the app is that it is used for cyber-bullying inside companies or even schools. As Twitter and Facebook have already found, a California base doesn't mean you can simply ignore the culture and legal systems of other countries where you operate. And the bigger risk may be that there are just not enough interesting secrets out there. "Secret isn't that exciting any more," says a message which has just popped up on my phone. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.