https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51474116
MWC 2020: Smartphone showcase cancelled over coronavirus fears - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology MWC 2020: Smartphone showcase cancelled over coronavirus fears 12 February 2020 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51474116 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Image copyright AFP The world's largest mobile phone showcase, Mobile World Congress (MWC), has been cancelled over coronavirus concerns, organisers have confirmed. The GSM Association (GSMA) said it had become "impossible" for the event to go ahead as planned in Barcelona. BT, Facebook, LG, Nokia, Sony and Vodafone were among the high-profile exhibitors to have pulled out of the annual event, citing coronavirus fears. But Spain's health minister, Salvador Illa, urged people to remain calm. Earlier on Wednesday, Mr Illa said people should "trust in the Spanish health system" and "take decisions based on scientific evidence". MWC was due to be held in Barcelona on 24-27 February. More than 100,000 people usually attend the annual event, about 6,000 of whom travel from China. Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Preparations for the event were already under way, with banners offering hygiene advice Thousands of companies exhibit their latest innovations, giving a huge lift to the local economy. But earlier this week, Amazon, Sony, LG Electronics, Ericsson, Facebook, and chipmakers Intel and Nvidia said they would not attend the conference. French telecoms group Orange also pulled out, despite the fact its chief executive, Stephane Richard, chairs the GSMA. Deutsche Telekom had said it would be "irresponsible" to send its staff to a large gathering with so many international guests. Coronavirus: Ninth case found in UK How worried should we be? 'If someone coughs, it makes me nervous' In a statement, GSMA chief executive John Hoffman said: "With due regard to the safe and healthy environment in Barcelona and the host country today, the GSMA has cancelled MWC Barcelona 2020." He said "global concern regarding the coronavirus outbreak, travel concern and other circumstances" had made it impossible to hold the event. Industry analyst Ben Wood, from the CCS Insight consultancy, said the GSMA had been a "victim of circumstances out of its control". "It's a huge disappointment the show will not go ahead this year," he said. "The impact on small companies who have invested a disproportionate amount of their budgets and time on this event should not be under-estimated. MWC is an anchor event for many and now they face the challenge of having to figure out the best way to salvage something from this difficult situation." A report by technology news site Wired suggested the GSMA had urged Spanish authorities to declare a health emergency so that it could cancel the event. The report suggested its insurance policies would not cover the GSMA's losses, if the organisation chose to cancel the event, rather than being required to do so by authorities declaring a health emergency. View comments Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Mobile World Congress Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Coronavirus: Facebook and Intel ditch MWC tech show 11 February 2020 Coronavirus: Sony and Amazon pull out of major tech show 10 February 2020 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.