https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17692256
Dual-focus contact lens prototypes ordered by Pentagon - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Dual-focus contact lens prototypes ordered by Pentagon By LJ Rich Reporter, BBC Click 13 April 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17692256 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Innovega says the lenses could be released to the public in 2014 The Pentagon has put in an order for prototype contact lenses that give users a much wider field of vision. The lenses are designed to be paired with compact head-up display (HUD) units - glasses that allow images to be projected onto their lenses. Much bulkier HUDs are already deployed by the US Army and Air Force to superimpose data about targets and other status updates over users' views. The tech could help troops enhance their awareness on the battlefield. The iOptik system's developer, Innovega, told the BBC it had signed a contract earlier this week to deliver a fully-functioning prototype to the Pentagon's research laboratory, Darpa. The US Department of Defense had previously funded part of the Washington-based firm's initial engineering work on the project. "The new contract gives us an immediate opportunity to start prototyping and demonstrating elements of this new system," Innovega's chief executive Steve Willey said. Multifocal The lenses work by allowing the wearer to focus on two things at once - both the information projected onto the glasses' lenses and the more distant view that can be seen through them. They do this by having two different filters. The central part of each lens sends light from the HUD towards the middle of the pupil, while the outer part sends light from the surrounding environment to the pupil's rim. By building two filters into each lens, close-up and distant light sources are both in focus Watch more about how the iOptik system could transform how we see the world around us The retina receives each image in focus, at the same time. "Normally, for example, with a camera you focus on something distant or something close - but you focus on a particular spot," said Mr Willey. "By wearing our contact lens you automatically have this multi-focus, or dual-focus, and you are doing something that humans don't usually do." Augmented reality The chief executive said he also hoped to license the technology to be sold to the public. One suggested application would be to allow users to watch what appear to be big-screen 3D movies on their glasses - with a different image projected to each lens. Other potential uses include augmented reality eyewear similar to that teased by Google in its recent Project Glass demo , and a device to offer gamers a more immersive experience. The lenses are still going through clinical trials as part of the US Food and Drug Administration's approval process, but Mr Willey said he was confident the tech should be available to the public towards the end of 2014. Image caption Innovega believes the lenses will allow the use of sunglass-style HUDs with built in projectors Motion sickness However, one eye expert suggested that a similar technique had proved problematic when used to treat post-surgery cataract patients. "Two superimposed images tend to be degraded and lower in contrast," said Prof Gary Rubin from University College London's Institute of Ophthalmology. "I question whether a multi-focal contact lens is the right solution. "If you're walking around with a heads up display on, the image projected on the lens could mask your peripheral or central vision. And if it's magnifying the image or changing the way it moves when your eyes move, you could get motion sickness." You can see more on this type of wearable technology on Click on the BBC News Channel at 1130 on Saturday and Sunday in the UK, and worldwide on BBC World News this weekend. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Bionic lenses to project emails 22 November 2011 Canadian film-maker's camera eye 20 September 2011 Contact lens sale 'may break law' 31 January 2011 Related Internet links Innovega Darpa UCL Institute of Ophthalmology Google The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.