https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51933618
Coronavirus: How can we stay in virtual touch with older relatives? - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Coronavirus: How can we stay in virtual touch with older relatives? 18 March 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51933618 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Video calls may be an important way of keeping in touch in coming weeks As the government encourages "social distancing" in the fight against coronavirus, older people are facing the prospect of being told to stay at home for weeks. But what if a parent or older person in your life, doesn't already have access to video calling tech? "You might want to consider getting a specialised device to make video calls to your loved ones," says Kate Bevan, editor of computing at Which?, the consumer magazine. "Once they're set up, they're very simple to use but you do have to dig through settings in their apps to connect them and that's not always as straightforward as it might be," she says. "Give yourself plenty of time to familiarise yourself with doing that so that you can help your relative through the process." Age UK, the charity for older people, adds that the choice of technology should be as "user-friendly as possible" for those unaccustomed to controlling video-chat software. "Something integrated like a video call app on a smartphone, tablet or a laptop with a built-in camera, for example will often be more straightforward," adds Caroline Abrahams, its charity director. "Older people may also prefer physical interfaces like a mouse rather than a touchscreen or trackpad. "To protect people's privacy it will be important to ensure that any new devices are secure and not likely to be hacked, and that anyone using a new device has access to ongoing support to help them learn how to use it and deal with any issues or problems." All-in-one hardware solutions Integrated kit can be the easiest solution - and could be hundreds of pounds cheaper than buying a laptop, tablet, or a mid-range smartphone. Amazon, Google, and Facebook all have smart devices with screens for video calls. Amazon's Echo Show range are some of the easiest to use. The devices have a feature that lets you start a call without the other person even having to answer. Called "drop in", it can automatically start the call if you set it up with the right permissions. It works with the Alexa app on smartphones, too, so only one person needs the special device. Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Amazon Echo Show, like its competitors, displays images when not on a call Amazon also has some of the cheapest options, with the compact 5in model costing £80. It has a screen about the size of a smartphone's but larger models are available. And it's compatible with Skype, the veteran (and ubiquitous) video-calling app. The Facebook Portal might be a better fit for some. One of its main selling points is the camera pans and zooms around the room, following the person you're talking to. It starts at about £80, on special offer, for the photo-frame model. Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Facebook's portal mini has embraced the photo-frame aesthetic It also integrates its video calls with Facebook-owned Whatsapp and the popular Facebook Messenger, so people who own a smartphone with those apps can easily call the Portal device. Google's Nest Hub Max sells itself on the fact it functions as a security camera. Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Google pitches it Nest Hub as a kitchen-counter device Similar to Amazon's "drop in", family members with the right permissions can activate the security features and start watching the camera feed at any time. Some privacy-conscious people may not see that as a good thing. It costs £219. Be aware that a smaller Nest Hub model does not have a camera. Smartphone solutions One problem with all these devices is their expense and another is their need to be on a stable, decent wi-fi connection at all times. Sometimes, a smartphone might be the better option. "If your family member has a tablet or smartphone, you can also help them get set up with apps such as Skype, Facebook Messenger and WhatsApp, all of which do video calls," Bevan says. "Apple users can also use FaceTime." Many of these apps are basically smartphone versions of the software on the smart displays - Google Duo, for example, is what Google's Nest speakers use, while Messenger and Whatsapp integrate with Facebook's Portal devices. But a new smartphone, even a mid-range one, can be much more expensive. And Bevan warns against hand-me-downs past a certain age. Apart from lower camera quality, there can be security concerns. "If you're considering passing old Android smartphones and tablets on to a relative, do be careful that it's still getting security updates," she says. "We recently found that there are more than a billion Android devices still in use that are at risk from malware and other threats." Related Topics Self-isolation Coronavirus pandemic Shielding Video calling Apps Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story One billion Android devices at risk of hacking 6 March 2020 Facebook Portal video chat screens raise privacy concerns 8 October 2018 Apple HomePod, Amazon Echo, Google Home and more: We put 7 speakers to the test 5 October 2018 Microsoft workers 'listen' to some translated Skype calls 7 August 2019 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.