https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-52021757
Coronavirus: Dyson develops ventilators for NHS - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Coronavirus: Dyson develops ventilators for NHS By Cristina Criddle Technology reporter 24 March 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-52021757 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Image copyright Reuters Dyson has announced it will develop a new type of medical ventilator for the NHS, to help with coronavirus. The firm, headed by British inventor Sir James Dyson, said it had responded to the government's request for help. Meanwhile, a consortium of more than a dozen companies aims to build ventilators based on two existing designs. Some industry insiders have suggested that Dyson's approach to create a new model will take too long. In a statement, Dyson said it had been working with The Technology Partnership, a medical company based in Cambridge, to develop a "meaningful and timely response". "This is a highly complex project being undertaken in an extremely challenging timeframe," it added. "We are conducting a fully regulated medical device development, including testing in the laboratory and in humans, and we are scaling up for volume." Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Sir James Dyson is best known for consumer products including vacuum cleaners and hair dryers Engineers, anaesthetists and surgeons from the University of Oxford and King's College London are working on another new type of ventilator. It is less advanced than existing commercial models, but benefits from being relatively quick to construct. Image Copyright @OxVent @OxVent Report Image Copyright @OxVent @OxVent Report "Creating new designs which can complement existing models might help meet demand," commented Dr Federico Formenti, who is part of the OxVent team. "Companies can't switch overnight - you can't put a Formula One component into a ventilator, it will take time." The project is still waiting to hear back from the government. It normally takes two to three years to design and bring a new ventilator to market, and there is concern that the NHS could run short of equipment in a matter of weeks. "Recreating established prototypes is likely to be a faster way to deal with the immediate demand," Dr Marion Hersh, senior lecturer in biomedical engineering at the University of Glasgow, told the BBC. "They may not have to go through all the regulatory hoops, but regulation will still need to be done properly. However, there could be value in more than one option in the slightly longer term." LIVE: Latest updates A SIMPLE GUIDE: What are the symptoms? AVOIDING CONTACT: Should I self-isolate? LOOK-UP TOOL: Check cases in your area MAPS AND CHARTS: Visual guide to the outbreak The manufacturing trade body Make UK had originally suggested that Dyson might instead play a role by helping source hard-to-get components that others could use. Prof Nick Oliver, from the University of Edinburgh's Business School, commented that time could be wasted if inexperienced companies tried to design and produce their own ventilators. "Great products come from painstaking testing, refinement and a deep understanding of the context of use," he added. "Rather than tasking non-medical companies to develop and produce ventilators from scratch, policymakers would do better to focus on how to extend the capacity of existing device manufacturers, who already have this detailed knowledge. "Celebrating inventiveness and resourcefulness is all well and good, but this is not the top priority at the moment." A consortium called The Ventilator Challenge UK aims instead to manufacture medical ventilators using two existing designs. Its members include: medical ventilator specialists Penlon and Smiths Airbus Ford McLaren Rolls-Royce One of the models is based on an anaesthetic ventilator made by Penlon, which is bulkier than those normally used in intensive care wards. The company's product chief previously warned that asking non-specialists to make ventilators would be "unrealistic". Smiths' portable ParaPac ventilator is the other machine the group aims to manufacture, according to a report by the Guardian newspaper. Image copyright Smiths Group Image caption The ParaPac ventilator is designed to be used by paramedics and other trained emergency personnel The company has already announced plans to supply 5,000 more ventilators within two weeks, and has said it intends to deliver tens of thousands more over the coming months. "We are doing everything possible to substantially increase production of our ventilators at our Luton site and worldwide," said Andrew Reynolds Smith, chief executive of Smiths. Related Topics Dyson Coronavirus pandemic Ventilators Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Coronavirus: Carmakers answer pleas to make medical supplies 24 March 2020 Coronavirus: How easy it for the UK to make more ventilators? 17 March 2020 Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.