https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18510205
Google Maps adds England and Wales's towpaths to travel routes - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Google Maps adds England and Wales's towpaths to travel routes 19 June 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-18510205 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption At the moment, towpaths in England and Wales are not listed as routes on Google Maps Google Maps users may soon find it easier to plan a trip on some of England and Wales's waterways. The US search engine has teamed up with the Canal and River Trust, a charity that will be in charge of the two countries' water network from July. The deal includes updating Google Maps to include 2,000 miles of canal and river paths. Currently, waterways are not listed on Google Maps as active routes people can use to move about. "Say, I'm by a canal in Paddington and I want to go to Camden, and I put this information into Google Maps as a walking route - it wouldn't send me to the canal, even though it's a nice green route to get there, it would send me by road," the Trust's spokesman Jonathan Ludford told the BBC. The charity will be working with Google to identify all the access points to the waterways, as well as all the bridges and tunnels, he added. A lot of people live by canals, and we want them to use these canals - so to have Google promoting the waterways is a really exciting initiative Jonathan Ludford, Canal and River Trust Traffic-free "It's a very exciting project - Google is basically putting the canal network of England and Wales on the map, and people will be able to put in a route and if it's appropriate to go by canal, they would go by canal," he said. "A lot of people live by canals, and we want them to use these canals - so to have Google promoting the waterways is a really exciting initiative." Once the data is on Google Maps, waterways will become alternative, possibly traffic-free, routes through towns and cities of England and Wales. "Canal towpaths offer green routes through our towns and cities, and by working with the Canal and River Trust we're adding towpaths to Google Maps and encouraging people to discover their local waterway," said Ed Parsons, geospatial technologist at Google UK. In early June, Google demonstrated new mapping technologies at a conference in the US. But a week later, as Apple unveiled its latest mobile operating system, iOS6, which runs on its iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch devices, it emerged that it will no longer include Google Maps software. Apple instead decided to run its own mapping app, which has a high-quality 3D mode, on the platform. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Google unveils new mapping technologies 7 June 2012 Google alerts users to suspected state-sponsored attacks 5 June 2012 Google to charge companies for product search listings 1 June 2012 Google Chrome OS computers updated with faster processors 29 May 2012 Related Internet links Google Canal & River Trust - An exciting new charity coming to a waterway near you in 2012. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.