https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17675314
Apple develops tool to 'detect and remove' Flashback Trojan - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Apple develops tool to 'detect and remove' Flashback Trojan 11 April 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-17675314 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Apple products have previously been regarded as less susceptible to viruses than Windows PCs Apple has said it is developing a tool to "detect and remove" a Trojan that is said to have infected more than half a million Mac computers. It said it is working with internet service providers (ISPs) to disrupt the command network being used by hackers to exploit the malware. Trojans are infections that can expose computers to control by hackers. It is Apple's first statement on the threat. It issued patches to prevent the malware's installation last week. The two security updates were released eight weeks after Java's developer Oracle issued a fix for other computer systems. In a message posted on Apple's website's support section , the company said it had fixed a "Java security flaw for systems running OS X v10.7 and Mac OS X v10.6". It suggested users of Macs running earlier versions of its system software should disable Java in their web browser preferences. In addition, Apple said it was working with ISPs to shut down networks of servers hosted by the malware authors, which the code - known as Flashback - relies on "to perform many of its critical functions". Macs 'being targeted' Russian anti-virus firm Dr Web, which has tracked the scale of the botnet, said it believed around 650,000 machines had now been infected. The company's chief executive, Boris Sharov, told the BBC that since the Trojan was publicised, they have seen downloads of their anti-virus software increase by 28,000%. "The thing that we have proven to the community is that people should care about their security, even on Macs," he said. According to a timeline of events posted on its website , Dr Web said activity surrounding the virus began as far back as February. Traditionally, Apple has promoted the fact that its Macintosh line is largely free from viruses and other similar threats due to the fact almost all malicious software is designed to exploit computers running on Microsoft Windows. McAfee Labs' Dave Marcus told the AFP news agency: "All the stuff the bad guys have learned for doing attacks in the PC world is now starting to transition to the Mac world." "Mac has said for a long time that they are not vulnerable to PC malware, which is true: they are vulnerable to Mac malware." The security firm F-Secure has posted detailed instructions about how to confirm if a machine is infected and how to manually remove the Trojan. Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Apple's market value hits $600bn 10 April 2012 Half a million Mac computers 'infected with malware' 5 April 2012 Jailbreakers use Apple crash reports to 'free' iPhones 8 March 2012 Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.