https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51954968
Facebook content moderators paid to work from home - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Facebook content moderators paid to work from home By Zoe Thomas Technology reporter 18 March 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51954968 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Image copyright Getty Images Facebook will pay its third-party US content moderators to work from home. On a call with reporters, Facebook's chief Mark Zuckerberg said the contract workers would still get their full salaries even if they were unable to do all their normal tasks. The company will also increase use of artificial intelligence to moderate content during the coronavirus crisis. Mr Zuckerberg said its work-from-home policy would last until the "public health response has been sufficient". But one workers' rights group said Facebook's move did not go far enough. "It's great that they are letting them work from home, but it seems like the bare minimum Facebook could do," said Joe Rivano Barros a campaign manager with the Workers Agency. He noted the contract workers are not getting bonus payments, unlike those directly employed by the tech firm. A SIMPLE GUIDE: What are the symptoms? AVOIDING CONTACT: Should I self-isolate? STRESS: How to protect your mental health LOOK-UP TOOL: Check cases in your area MAPS AND CHARTS: Visual guide to the outbreak VIDEO: The 20-second hand wash Facebook has approximately 15,000 content moderators in the US, who are hired by third-party contracting companies. They review posts that have been flagged by users or the firm's own software to determine if the content is inappropriate or harmful. Mr Zuckerberg said that privacy concerns meant that some data could not be shared with the contractors when they are working away from base, although he did not specify the details. He acknowledged, however, that this could lead to some content slipping through the cracks that would normally be deleted. He added some decisions about the most sensitive topics - including content involving self-harm and suicide - would be taken over by Facebook's full-time staff because the infrastructure was not in place to support the mental health repercussions of the contractors dealing with the posts. He said there might be more of this type of content as a result of people being told to go into self-isolation because of the pandemic. "I am personally quite worried that the isolation from people being at home could potentially lead to to more depression or mental health issues, and I want to make sure that we are ahead of that supporting our community," he said. Facebook has been working on algorithms for several years to automatically spot and remove content that violates its policies. However, earlier this week the limitations of the scheme were highlighted when a large number of legitimate coronavirus posts were wrongly flagged and removed from view - something the firm blamed on a spam-filter bug. Mr Rivano Barros said the increased use of AI was a worrying signal to contract workers, who fear it will ultimately replace them. Facebook announced on Tuesday it would also be creating a $100m (£86m) grant programme to support small businesses impacted by the outbreak. Additionally the company is giving all its full-time staff a $1,000 bonus to help support them during this time. Related Topics Facebook Coronavirus pandemic Mark Zuckerberg Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Coronavirus: Facebook blames bug for incorrectly marked spam 18 March 2020 Facebook and YouTube moderators sign PTSD disclosure 25 January 2020 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.