https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51458997
Coronavirus: Facebook and Intel ditch MWC tech show - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Coronavirus: Facebook and Intel ditch MWC tech show By Zoe Kleinman Technology reporter, BBC News 11 February 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51458997 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Image copyright Getty Images Facebook and Intel have become the latest big tech firms to announce they are withdrawing from MWC in Barcelona, citing concerns about coronavirus. Spanish media is reporting that trade body the GSMA, which organises MWC, will meet to decide whether to cancel the event entirely on Friday. The GSMA declined to comment on "internal meetings". Amazon, Sony, LG Electronics, Ericsson and US chip company Nvidia have already pulled out. Other big brands have told the BBC they are reviewing their plans. Facebook said "evolving public health risks" were behind its decision. So far the GSMA has said MWC will still go ahead. However, one contact in the telecoms sector told the BBC that today was likely to be "a decisive day" for other firms contemplating dropping out. More than 100,000 people usually attend Mobile World Congress every year, and thousands of firms exhibit. Around 6,000 people travel from China, according to GSMA figures. In its latest statement, it said more than 2,800 exhibitors were still planning to take part. Intel explained its decision to pull out: "The safety and wellbeing of all our employees and partners is our top priority, and we have withdrawn from this year's Mobile World Congress out of an abundance of caution." Huawei said it was still planning to go but was reviewing the situation "on a daily basis". The BBC understands it will be relying heavily on its western-Europe-based staff, rather than sending over many executives from Shenzhen. Image caption In 2019 Huawei unveiled its first foldable smartphone, the Mate X, at MWC Chinese smartphone maker Vivo, which was planning to its launch its product range in the UK market at MWC 2020, announced this morning that it would be withdrawing, saying "the health and safety of our employees and the public are our top priority". TCL, another Chinese firm, said it was cancelling its global press event but would offer "private pre-briefings" and would still exhibit at the trade fair. Royole, creator of the first foldable phone to come to market, the FlexPai, is another company to drop out. It said it would instead announce its next device - the FlexPai2 - ahead of MWC. Cyber-security firm McAfee also dropped out on Tuesday, citing health and safety concerns. Google and Microsoft are still on board. Nokia said it was currently planning to attend but chief marketing officer Barry French added that "the situation is fluid". At least one of the big UK phone networks is understood to have significantly reduced its presence at the show. NTT DoCoMo, Amdocs and Commscope are among those cancelling their plans to go to Barcelona altogether. The decision to pull out could prove expensive for smaller firms in particular. Israel/New York-based software startup Lightico told the BBC it expected to lose the $15,000 (£12,000) it had invested in its place at the event by not attending. It will be hosting what it described as "a virtual booth" instead. "The main value for us [in attending MWC] was driving business by meeting with prospects, partners, existing customers," said spokesman Eytan Morgenstern, PR firm Hoffman Agency said it had clients which had dropped out but it was still attending MWC with others - and was looking into ways in which companies that had pulled out could recycle any promotional material and merchandise created for the show. Health precautions The GSMA is insisting that all visitors from China will have to be quarantined for two weeks prior to the start of the show. It is also encouraging delegates to follow World Health Organization hygiene advice, and not to shake hands with each other. It will be carrying out body temperature screening, it said. Analysis: Cristina Criddle, technology reporter, BBC News The technology companies might be alarmed by the potential spread of coronavirus at Mobile World Congress this year, but Barcelona itself appears more relaxed about it. I spoke to several people who live and work in the city and none was overly concerned. One person described the tech firms' reactions as "hysterical". Image copyright Getty Images Barcelona relies heavily on tourism. It has the largest port in the Mediterranean and welcomes millions of people to Catalonia each year from all over the world - more than 100,000 attend Mobile World Congress alone. It is more fearful about damage to its economy; hotels are already being hit with cancellations, and bars, restaurants and music venues may see a dip in profits this month if many people stay away. And in a nod to another Barcelona industry that thrives at these times, one anonymous MWC delegate, speaking to the Financial Times, said he "felt sorry for all the pickpockets". Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Mobile World Congress Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story China launches coronavirus 'close contact detector' app 11 February 2020 Coronavirus: Sony and Amazon pull out of major tech show 10 February 2020 Coronavirus: LG pulls out of Mobile World Congress 5 February 2020 Coronavirus: Pressure grows to re-open factories 7 February 2020 Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.