https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-28739329
US tech companies rally behind Facebook in privacy case - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology US tech companies rally behind Facebook in privacy case By Joe Miller Technology reporter 11 August 2014 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-28739329 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Facebook has vowed to fight the US government over data requests In a strong display of unity, several large US tech firms have come to the defence of Facebook, as the social network contests a court order which required it to hand over users' data. Google, Microsoft, Twitter and Dropbox are among those who have filed court documents arguing that the search warrant violated the US Constitution. In June, Facebook revealed it had given a New York court the personal data of 381 people involved in a fraud trial. Only 62 of those were later charged. Photographs, private messages and other information were supplied by the social media site to the court in 2013, as part of an investigation into fraudulent claimants for US federal disability benefits. The court said the defendants' Facebook accounts had contained evidence showing that they were, in fact, healthy. The social media site, which had its initial appeal against the warrant denied, said the request was "by far the largest" it had ever received from a government body. Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The major tech firms have all been subject to government requests for user data Legal challenge In documents filed to a New York court, and seen by the BBC, the following US tech firms threw their support behind Facebook: Google Microsoft Twitter LinkedIn Yelp Dropbox Pinterest Foursquare Kickstarter Meetup Tumblr Some of the companies argued that the process violated the First Amendment to the US Constitution, which protects freedom of speech, and the Fourth Amendment, which protects against "unreasonable searches and seizures" of persons' belongings. In their submission to the court, firms such as Google and Microsoft said they had "a strong interest in the resolution of the issues in this case", as they too faced similar legal battles over the protection of user data. A lawyer representing some of the medium-sized firms, including Foursquare and Tumblr, expressed concern that "smaller entities, such as start-ups and other developing companies, may not always have the resources to litigate," when confronted with a government search warrant. 'Gag orders' But the firms were most angered by the fact that the entire proceedings had been kept private by the court. Two months ago, Facebook revealed that the US government had obtained "gag orders" to prevent it from telling the account holders that their data had been passed to prosecutors. The story was only revealed almost a year later, after a New York judge agreed to make the process public. The tech firms rallying behind Facebook said it was "far from clear" that the order had served a compelling government interest. A separate filing was made by both the New York and American Civil Liberties Unions, who outlined their opposition to the court's decision, warning that "Facebook users are at risk of dilution of their constitutional rights". Related Topics Twitter Facebook Google LinkedIn Microsoft Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Microsoft ordered to hand over emails on Dublin server 1 August 2014 Facebook fights 'largest ever' US court data request 27 June 2014 Facebook privacy challenge attracts 25,000 users 6 August 2014 Google says government requests 'up 120%' in four years 28 March 2014 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.