https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26994198
Live radio - through Google Glass - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Live radio - through Google Glass Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 11 April 2014 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26994198 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Phew - we've just come off air after our weekly World Service radio programme Tech Tent, and I think we may have just achieved a world first. I wrote earlier this week about my experience with Google Glass, and that we were puzzling about how we might stream live video from the device. Then, a couple of days ago a company called Livestream announced that it had launched an app for Glass which would allow anyone to do just that - stream a live view of what someone wearing the device was seeing. So I downloaded the software, installed it - and set up a live event for Friday's Tech Tent. At 15:00 BST, I tapped a couple of times on the side of the glasses, and in the screen above my right eye I could see that we were streaming live. Then during the programme I was able to see live comments from the few people who'd found the link and were watching. You can see the entire stream. Now anyone who sat through this historic TV broadcast of a radio programme might have felt slightly seasick. Because you see everything through my eyes the camera lurches from guest to guest - we had Leo Kelion and Dougal Shaw from the tech team in the tent, and our special guest was the computer scientist Dr Sue Black. The sound isn't great either - you can hear me, but obviously nothing that's on tape and the guests are almost inaudible. But what you do get is a behind-the-scenes look at what it is like to present a live radio programme. So this would need a bit of work before it became really useful - but we are just relieved that a live technology demo worked for once. Now I need to go and lie down. View comments Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.