https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-28014228
Can you make a giant dance? Facebook tries to innovate - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Can you make a giant dance? Facebook tries to innovate Rory Cellan-Jones Technology correspondent @BBCRoryCJ on Twitter 25 June 2014 comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-28014228 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Getty Images Big established companies that dominate their industries often find it gets harder to innovate - so is Facebook now about to face that same problem? I've just spent three hours at the social network's headquarters trying to work out whether it can stay ahead as it grows ever bigger. Life must look good if you're one of the nearly 4,000 people who turn up for work at the sprawling campus in Menlo Park in California, where the central plaza Hacker Square is dotted with cafes and people stroll in the sunshine toting their laptops as they head for the next meeting. With profits now rolling in from mobile advertising, and much of the focus remaining on improving the core product, it is hard to remember the last big Facebook innovation. The company seems to buy new ideas - from Instagram to WhatsApp to Oculus Rift - rather than developing its own. But in apparent recognition of that problem, Facebook now has a division called Creative Labs, which consists of small teams given the freedom to work on stand-alone mobile apps. Many are expected to fail, according to Will Cathcart who runs this project, but a few may come up with a winning idea. I met the team behind Slingshot, which has been out in the US for a couple of weeks and is now launching worldwide. Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionBBC's Rory Cellan-Jones meets the developers of the Slingshot app at Facebook's headquarters in California This is an app which allows you to send - or rather sling - photos and videos to your friends. The trick is they can only see them if they sling something back. It's quite slick and fun - though having installed the app last week I found that the tech blogger Robert Scoble had sent me 16 slingshots which I couldn't see until I found something worth slinging back. Maybe it's not for my demographic… Many of [Google's] ideas seem to reflect an engineer's dreams rather than a marketing executive's shrewd appraisal of what consumers will buy Slingshot is obviously aimed at the Snapchat crowd, young people always on the lookout for a new way of communicating and promiscuous in their use of social media. Having failed to buy the app whose snaps vanish into thin air after opening, the undisputed king of social networking is now trying to shore up its defences by offering something similar. Only the paranoid survive, as the Silicon Valley mantra goes, so Facebook is probably right to try anything and everything that might stop younger users slipping away from its orbit. In its approach to innovation, Mark Zuckerberg's company is far more focused but less adventurous than another tech giant. Google has poured huge sums into Google X, the divisions which undertake so-called "moonshots" like the self-driving car or Project Loon which aims to deliver internet access via high-altitude balloon. None of these projects looks likely to deliver much, if any, revenue to Google's bottom line in the near future, yet the search giant can probably afford to go on allowing its engineers to spend much time and huge amounts of money on them. Image copyright Facebook Image caption Slingshot users must send back an image of their own to un-pixelate the photos they receive Unlike Facebook, Google's core business of search-based advertising does not appear to be under threat from some twenty-something with a bright new idea. That makes it a more exciting company to watch than Facebook, even if many of its hardware ideas seem to reflect an engineer's dreams rather than a marketing executive's shrewd appraisal of what consumers will buy. Later today its annual developer conference Google I/O gets underway with a keynote which should see lots of new wearable technology unveiled. We'll be assessing how nimbly Google is dancing into the future. View comments Related Topics Facebook Google Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More from Rory Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.