https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51968122
Step-by-step guide: How to video call your family - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Step-by-step guide: How to video call your family By Chris Fox Technology reporter 22 March 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-51968122 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Related Topics Coronavirus pandemic Image copyright Getty Images/BBC If you are self-isolating at home, video-chatting can help you stay in touch with your friends and family. This guide will show you how to make a video call using a smartphone, or receive one using your desktop computer - or help you explain how to do so to others. How to video call with an Android phone If your phone is made by OnePlus, Google, Honor, Huawei, LG, Samsung or Sony, it is an Android phone. Several other companies make Android phones too. There are plenty of free apps you can use to make video calls including Google Duo, Facebook Messenger, Skype, WhatsApp and Zoom. This guide will show you how to make a video call using WhatsApp. Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionWATCH: How to make a WhatsApp video call To video call a friend using WhatsApp, they will need to have installed the app too - and you will need to add their phone number to your smartphone's address book. A SIMPLE GUIDE: What are the symptoms? AVOIDING CONTACT: Should I self-isolate? STRESS: How to protect your mental health LOOK-UP TOOL: Check cases in your area MAPS AND CHARTS: Visual guide to the outbreak VIDEO: The 20-second hand wash How to video call with an iPhone, iPad or Mac If you have an iPhone, iPad or Mac computer, you can video call a friend using FaceTime. The app comes pre-installed on all of these devices. However, it only works on Apple devices, so your friend or relative must be using an iPhone, iPad or Mac too. Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionWATCH: How to make a FaceTime call If your friend or relative does not use an iPhone, iPad or Mac, you can still video call them using a different app. You can follow the instructions provided for WhatsApp at the top of this page. How to receive a video call without installing software You can receive video calls on a desktop computer without installing any software. Some video-calling services such as Skype and Zoom will let you join a chat using your computer's web browser. To do this, you'll need to be invited to a video call by a friend or relative who already has the software installed. Ask them to follow the instructions in the video below, in order to send you an invite link by text message or email. Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionWATCH: How to receive a video call via a desktop computer's web browser Remember, you should only click on the link if you have spoken to your friend or relative and are expecting it. If you are not expecting an invite, ask your friend or relative to double-check. Related Topics Family Coronavirus pandemic Mobile phones WhatsApp Video calling Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Coronavirus: How can we stay in virtual touch with older relatives? 18 March 2020 Coronavirus: Ways to stay social online while in self-isolation 20 March 2020 Top Stories Over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in Italy It is believed to be the biggest daily rise in the world taking the country's total fatalities to 9,134. 27 March 2020 Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.