https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16137573
Oil cyber-attacks could cost lives, Shell warns - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Menu Search Search the BBC Search the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Technology Technology Oil cyber-attacks could cost lives, Shell warns 8 March 2012 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-16137573 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image caption Attacks are entering a "new dimension", experts warn The oil industry has been warned that cyber-attacks could "cost lives" and cause "huge damage". Ludolf Luehmann, an IT manager for Shell, told the World Petroleum Conference in Doha that the company had suffered an increased number of attacks. He said the hacks had been motivated by both commercial and criminal intent. Security researcher David Emm said that such attacks were "not only possible, but they're now real". Mr Luehmann said Shell and others in the industry were experiencing a "new dimension" of attack which could leave physical machinery at serious risk. He made reference to Stuxnet, a targeted "worm" whichwas designed to attack industrial systems in the summer of 2010. Mr Luehmann said Stuxnet showed energy giants that cyber-attacks could have a real-world consequence on business processes. "If anybody gets into the area where you can control opening and closing of valves, or release valves, you can imagine what happens. "It will cost lives and it will cost production, it will cost money, cause fires and cause loss of containment, environmental damage - huge, huge damage." He added: "We see an increasing number of attacks on our IT systems and information and there are various motivations behind it - criminal and commercial." Dramatic change When contacted by the BBC, Shell said it would not comment further on Mr Luehmann's statements. BP, itself a target of high-profile cyber-attacks following the Gulf oil spill, said it did not speak publicly about security issues as a matter of company policy. Dennis Painchaud, director of international government relations at Canadian energy company Nexen, said targeted attacks such as Stuxnet and themore recent threat Duquform a "very significant risk to our business". "Cybercrime is a huge issue. It's not restricted to one company or another - it's really broad and it is ongoing. "It's something that we have to stay on top of every day. It is a risk that is only going to grow and is probably one of the pre-eminent risks that we face today and will continue to face for some time." Moscow-based security experts Kaspersky, said the past 18 months had seen a dramatic change in how cyber-threats were perceived by large companies. "The scene used to be dominated by speculative attacks - people being at the wrong place at at the wrong time, but it was nothing personal," Mr Emm told the BBC. "But we certainly are in a different world than where we were 18 months ago. What we're starting to see is an increase in targeted attacks. We know critical systems, like those in oil production, are vulnerable to attack. "A lot of countries now are pumping money into research - the last 18 months have shown these people are after not just the public's money, but they're after larger organisation's information. "Organisations like Shell and others are hopefully taking steps to minimise that risk." Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story Iran says Duqu hack 'controlled' 14 November 2011 Researchers warn of new Stuxnet 19 October 2011 Cyber attack tests for Olympic IT 10 October 2011 Code clues point to Stuxnet maker 19 November 2010 Related Internet links Shell Kaspersky The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites Top Stories Trump orders General Motors to make ventilators The US president said "GM was wasting time" and action was needed to save American lives. 27 March 2020 Trump signs largest bailout in US history 27 March 2020 Lockdowns continue to suppress European pollution 27 March 2020 Features Trump knows economic meltdown brings political pain A university course the world wants to study right now No alcohol, no dog walks: Lockdown in South Africa A snapshot of American life under lockdown Seven ways to stop bad information Pangolins carry strains related to new coronavirus 'We can't see it, but everyone is terrified' Can EU get a grip on coronavirus? BBC Future: Why infectious diseases are on the rise Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech selected Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Arts Taster Local Three Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Copyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.