https://www.canadianbusiness.com/technology-news/cheap-lousy-vr-knockoffs-risk-harming-the-whole-market/
Cheap, lousy VR knockoffs risk harming the whole market	 St. Joseph Communications uses cookies for personalization, to customize its online advertisements, and for other purposes. Learn more or change your cookie preferences. By continuing to use our service, you agree to our use of cookies. We use cookies (why?) You can change cookie preferences. Continued site use signifies consent. × NEWS GROWTH 500 BEST MANAGED COMPANIES MBA GUIDE More NEWS GROWTH 500 BEST MANAGED COMPANIES MBA GUIDE © Copyright 2020 St. Joseph Communications. NEWSLETTERS SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTERS NEWS GROWTH 500 BEST MANAGED COMPANIES MBA GUIDE NEWS GROWTH 500 BEST MANAGED COMPANIES MBA GUIDE Search © Copyright 2020 St. Joseph Communications. Technology Cheap, lousy VR knockoffs risk harming the whole market HTC’s VR head says that with decent headsets still carrying hefty price tags, consumers could be turned off by low-end also-rans By Peter Nowak April 20, 2016 A visitor using the HTC Vive VR headset at the 2016 Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. (Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg/Getty) HTC, maker of the Vive virtual reality headset, is worried about the proliferation of cheap VR products that will soon flood the market. “We’re not afraid of competition, we’re afraid of bad VR,” says Raymond Pao, vice-president of VR new technology at HTC. “That’s the biggest problem with VR now.” Virtual Reality will make more headlines than sales in 2016 Inexpensive headsets, especially the raft expected from Chinese manufacturers, run the risk of harming the overall market, he added. Poor graphics, uncomfortable hardware and an improperly calibrated experience that can make users feel nauseous are likely to turn people off the emerging technology. HTC, along with Sony and Facebook-owned Oculus, represent the high-end vanguard of virtual reality. Oculus released its long-awaited Rift headset last month, followed by Taiwan-based HTC this month. Both products are relatively expensive, costing $599 (U.S.) and $799, respectively, and require costly, turbo-charged PCs to run. Sony’s PlayStation VR, due in October, is cheaper at $399 but still requires a PlayStation 4 console. A host of less-powerful and less-expensive options are becoming available, some costing as low as $100. Speaking as part of a panel discussion on the future of VR in Shenzhen, China, on Tuesday, Pao talked about how much work HTC and the other high-end VR purveyors have ahead of them in selling consumers on the technology. Like most new gadgets, VR will have to overcome consumer skepticism. Quality VR is also a relatively expensive proposition for now, which is going to make it more difficult to show off to the masses. It is, however, one of those technologies that really does need to be experienced before it can be bought into. One poor experience, of which there will likely be many, is likely all it will take to turn consumers off, Pao said. “People will not pay a cent for something that’s going to make them sick.” How Felix & Paul Studios make films for the coming VR boom VR hardware and software makers are also going to have to adjust the design of their products to work well with the new medium. Old input methods such as mice and keyboards are likely going to contribute to poor experiences, said Chu Hanjin, director of content alliances and solutions for AMD’s Radeon Technology Group. “I can definitely say that’s going to cause sickness.” Paul Gray, principal analyst at IHS Research, said inexpensive mobile VR such as Google Cardboard and Samsung’s Gear VR has the potential to entice consumers to the more high-end headsets, but it also risks putting people off it. “The experience gets poisoned” with poor video quality, he said. VR ultimately isn’t a short-lived bubble, nor is it the next big thing, he added. IHS expects market growth to be slow and steady, with an install base of 38 million headsets worldwide by 2020. Sony is betting that the VR wars will be fought on price MORE ABOUT VIDEO GAMES & VIRTUAL REALITY: Virtual Reality will make more headlines than sales in 2016 Nintendo Canada GM Pierre-Paul Trepanier on what makes Canadian gamers different Ubisoft’s global workforce now develops games around the clock Senior leaders need to play around with technology more How Felix & Paul Studios are making films for the coming VR boom Should we really be turning investing into a video game? FILED UNDER: Facebook Google Google Cardboard htc HTC Vive Oculus Rift samsung Samsung Gear technology video games virtual reality VR Advertisement Advertisement 0 © Copyright 2020 St. Joseph Communications. About Us Contact Us Site Map Political Ads Registry