https://www.canadianbusiness.com/technology-news/review-samsung-galaxy-tab-s-10-5/
Review: Samsung Galaxy Tab S 10.5 is in striking distance of the iPad	 St. Joseph Communications uses cookies for personalization, to customize its online advertisements, and for other purposes. Learn more or change your cookie preferences. By continuing to use our service, you agree to our use of cookies. We use cookies (why?) You can change cookie preferences. Continued site use signifies consent. × NEWS GROWTH 500 BEST MANAGED COMPANIES MBA GUIDE More NEWS GROWTH 500 BEST MANAGED COMPANIES MBA GUIDE © Copyright 2020 St. Joseph Communications. NEWSLETTERS SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTERS NEWS GROWTH 500 BEST MANAGED COMPANIES MBA GUIDE NEWS GROWTH 500 BEST MANAGED COMPANIES MBA GUIDE Search © Copyright 2020 St. Joseph Communications. Technology Review: Samsung Galaxy Tab S 10.5 is in striking distance of the iPad: Peter Nowak Lighter and thinner than the iPad Air, with a higher pixel count By Peter Nowak July 18, 2014 Just as in smartphones, Samsung has really been coming on strong in tablets, grabbing market share from category king Apple in recent months. Judging by the South Korean company’s new Galaxy Tab S 10.5, it’s easy to see why. Samsung’s updated flagship tablet is about as strong a contender to the iPad as there is on the market today. It has a number of features going for it that in some ways make it a superior choice, with just a few niggles that hold it back from indeed claiming that mantle. Chief among the pluses are nearly identical specs in the ways that count: weight and display. At 465 grams, the Tab S is a full four grams lighter than the base model of Apple’s flagship device, the iPad Air. Samsung’s tablet is also just 6.6 millimetres thick, or almost a full millimetre thinner. GALLERY: The 15 most popular phones in Canada » Yup, these tiny numbers are relatively inconsequential minutiae that few users are likely to detect, but they do show that Samsung has effectively matched Apple at its own size-and-weight game. Either way, both tablets are incredibly light and easy to handle. The Tab S’s display is also fantastic and on par with its rival in every way. Samsung’s 10.5-inch super AMOLED screen features a pixel resolution of 2,560 by 1,600 pixels, or about 288 pixels per inch. That’s slightly bigger than the Air’s 9.7-inch screen, and sharper – Apple’s tablet has a resolution of 2,048 by 1,536 pixels, or 264 pixels per inch. Again, these are microscopic details that no one is really going to care about. Both tablet screens are super sharp and great to look at. READ: Is Samsung’s Galaxy Note Pro better than Apple’s iPad Air? » Where they diverge is, of course, with their operating systems. Apple’s iOS offers an arguably slicker and more unified experience, while the Galaxy’s Android is a more open system that allows for tinkering. One thing I really like about Android, for example, is that it has a PC-like folder structure where you can find all the various files you’ve saved or downloaded onto your device. With iOS on the other hand, I often have to go hunting for files that I know are somewhere on the device, but lord knows where. In that vein, Android devices are usually also more open in regards to the things you can connect to them. The Tab S is no exception, with a micro-USB port and micro-SD card slot, for connecting other devices and charges or for expanding storage, respectively. The tablet also has stereo speakers on its sides, which makes for a better audio experience than the iPad Air. INTERVIEW: Samsung Canada SVP Paul Brannen on how Samsung is going to try to sell you a smart watch » On the downside, I found web surfing to be a little laggy on the Samsung device. Scrolling up and down sites in the Chrome browser often comes with a microsecond delay or so, which isn’t enough to ruin the experience but enough to be noticeable. The iPad Air, on the other hand, is smooth as silk. There’s also a fingerprint scanner, but just as with Samsung’s Galaxy S5 smartphone, I found it to be a chore to use, so I ended up shutting it down in short order. The base models of both Samsung’s and Apple’s tablets sell for the exact same price ($519 in Canada), but the Tab S comes with a host of freebie goodies, such as several months of free access to the likes of LinkedIn Premium, the Wall Street Journal, the Globe and Mail, Next Issue and even Marvel Unlimited. It’s a wide cross section of content, making for a heck of a deal. Ultimately, the Galaxy Tab S offers a little more bang for one’s buck and delivers a slightly more customizable Android experience than Apple’s rival tablet. The iPad Air, on the other hand, still feels a little slicker and runs a tad bit smoother. Your buying decision in this case will likely come down to whether you’re in Camp Android or Camp Apple. At this point in the evolution of tablets, there aren’t too many downsides to being in either. Follow Us Like Us FILED UNDER: android gadgets ios ipad review samsung tablet tablets Advertisement Advertisement 0 © Copyright 2020 St. Joseph Communications. About Us Contact Us Site Map Political Ads Registry