https://www.canadianbusiness.com/technology-news/unwrapped-philips-hue-light-system-and-app-controller/
Unwrapped: Philips Hue light system and app controller - Canadian Business	 St. Joseph Communications uses cookies for personalization, to customize its online advertisements, and for other purposes. Learn more or change your cookie preferences. By continuing to use our service, you agree to our use of cookies. We use cookies (why?) You can change cookie preferences. Continued site use signifies consent. × NEWS GROWTH 500 BEST MANAGED COMPANIES MBA GUIDE More NEWS GROWTH 500 BEST MANAGED COMPANIES MBA GUIDE © Copyright 2020 St. Joseph Communications. NEWSLETTERS SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTERS NEWS GROWTH 500 BEST MANAGED COMPANIES MBA GUIDE NEWS GROWTH 500 BEST MANAGED COMPANIES MBA GUIDE Search © Copyright 2020 St. Joseph Communications. Technology Unwrapped: Philips Hue light system and app controller Ever wish the lighting in your house was more Vogue cover shoot than prison mug shot? This light bulb can match the colours in any photo. By CB Staff November 20, 2012 Ever wish the lighting in your house was more Vogue cover shoot than prison mug shot? The new Philips Hue light bulb can match the colours in any photo, up to 16 million colours in all, with the tap of a smartphone app. The starter kit of three bulbs and a ZigBee bridge that attaches to a Wi-Fi router costs $199, exclusively at the Apple Store (sorry, Androiders). Additional bulbs cost $59 each. Hey, no one said it would be cheap to light your bathroom that perfect shade of lavender. The bulb An 8.5-watt LED bulb produces 600 lumens of light, about the same as a 50-watt incandescent bulb, but uses up to 80% less power. The app With the free iPhone, iPod or iPad app, you can control the bulb’s advanced colour features, set lighting for specific times and even post your lighting shade and colour combos to social media. The app can operate as many as 50 bulbs in one house. ZigBee bridge This gadget makes all the wonderful app control possible, linking the Hue light bulbs to your Wi-Fi router and each other. It’s based on the open-source ZigBee light link standard, also being adopted by General Electric, Sylvania and Greenwave to offer a standard wireless control code for consumer lighting. FILED UNDER: unwrapped Advertisement Advertisement 0 © Copyright 2020 St. Joseph Communications. About Us Contact Us Site Map Political Ads Registry