https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/top-10-species-2016-1.3599612
Giant tortoise, huge carnivorous plant among Top 10 new species of 2016 | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Giant tortoise, huge carnivorous plant among Top 10 new species of 2016 Social Sharing Technology & Science·Photos Giant tortoise, huge carnivorous plant among Top 10 new species of 2016 A giant tortoise and a large carnivorous plant are among the Top 10 new species of 2016, the International Institute for Species Exploration says. Social Sharing 2 of the species chosen this year have been extinct for millions of years CBC News · Posted: May 25, 2016 5:43 PM ET | Last Updated: May 25, 2016 The eastern Santa Cruz tortoise, a new species of giant Galapagos tortoise, was given the scientific name Chelonoidis donfaustoi, after local park ranger Don Fausto. (Washington Tapia) A giant tortoise and a large carnivorous plant are among the Top 10 new species of 2016, along with other recently discovered plants and animals such as a red seadragon fish with pink stripes and a very tiny beetle. The list was released by the International Institute for Species Exploration this week. It was chosen by a panel of scientists from about 18,000 species named during the previous year in order to draw attention to new species being discovered as others go extinct. "We can only win this race to explore biodiversity if we pick up the pace," Quentin Wheeler, founding director of the IISE, said in a statement. "Knowledge of what species exist, where they live, and what they do will help mitigate the biodiversity crisis and archive evidence of the life on our planet that does disappear in the wild." Two of the species chosen this year have been extinct for millions of years — an ancient human relative from Africa called Homo naledi and a tiny ape called Pliobates cataloniae that lived around 11.6 million years ago in what is now Spain. The IISE, based at the State University of New York's College of Environmental Science and Forestry, has been releasing the Top 10 each year since 2008, around May 23. That date marks the birthday of Carl Linnaeus, an 18th-century Swedish botanist who is considered the father of modern taxonomy. Here's a look at this year's Top 10: Eastern Santa Cruz tortoise Scientists used genetic data to determine last year that a group of 250 giant Galapagos tortoises on Santa Cruz Island were distinct from the other giant tortoise species on the island and on other islands in the archipelago. The new species has been named the eastern Santa Cruz tortoise and has been given the scientific name Chelonoidis donfaustoi after local park ranger Don Fausto. New research differentiated the new eastern Santa Cruz tortoise, given the scientific name Chelonoidis donfaustoi, from a larger population of about 2,000 tortoises living about 10 kilometres away on the western part of the island that belong to the species Chelonoidis porteri. (Washington Tapia/Yale University) Giant sundew Another huge find last year was Drosera magnifica, a type of carnivorous plant called a sundew, the largest ever found in the Americas. It was discovered in Brazil after an image of it was posted on Facebook. The new sundew Drosera magnifica is one of the largest known carnivorous plants. (Paulo Gonella) Unusual ancient human relative The discovery of a new ancient human relative in South Africa, Homo naledi, made headlines last September. The new species has a strange mix of human-like and ape-like traits — human-like hands and feet, combined with a small brain and ape-like shoulders. Prof. Adam Habib holds a reconstruction of Homo naledi presented during the announcement made in Magaliesburg, South Africa, on Sept. 10, 2015. (Themba Hadebe/Associated Press file) Blind, building isopod Isopods are the group of animals that includes woodlice or "pillbugs." A new, blind isopod that measures just nine millimetres long, named Iuiuniscus iuiuensis, has been found in a Brazilian cave. Scientists were intrigued by the fact that it builds spherical shelters out of mud to protect itself when it sheds its protective exoskeleton. This is a new species of isopod, the group that includes woodlice or 'pillbugs.' It was discovered in a cave in Brazil, and does something very unusual — it builds spherical shelters out of mud to protect itself when it sheds its protective exoskeleton. (Souza, Ferreira & Senna) Little anglerfish A new anglerfish, named Lasiognathus dinema, just five centimetres long was discovered during a Natural Resource Damage Assessment process conducted by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010. This new species of anglerfish, which is just five centimetres long, was discovered during a Natural Resource Damage Assessment process conducted by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration after the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010. (Theodore W. Pietsch/University of Washington) Ruby seadragon Seadragons are related to seahorses. A new species named Phyllopteryx dewysea, which is bright red and nearly 30 centimetres long, has been discovered off the coast of Western Australia. This is the skeleton of the ruby seadragon. It's the third seadragon species ever discovered, despite the fact that it is bright red with pink stripes and is nearly a foot long. It lives off the coast of Western Australia. ( Josefin Stiller, Nerida Wilson and Greg Rouse) Featherwing beetle This tiny beetle was discovered in Peru and has been named Phytotelmatrichis osopaddington after the fictional Paddington Bear, who was also from Peru. It was discovered in water pooled in a rolled-up leaf. This tiny beetle from Peru lives in pools of water that accumulate in the hollows of plants. It has been named after the fictional Paddington Bear, who was also from Peru and found with a sign that said, 'Please look after this bear.' (Michael Darby) 'Laia' the ape This extinct ape, which weighed about five kilograms, lived about 11.6 million years ago in what is now Spain. Her fossil remains were found in a landfill in Catalonia. She was nicknamed "Laia" after Eulalia, the original patron saint of Barcelona and has been given the scientific name Pliobates cataloniae. This ape, seen in an artist's reconstruction, nicknamed 'Laia' by her discoverers, was a small female that lived about 11.6 million years ago in what is now Spain, climbing trees and eating fruit. (Marta Palmero, Institut Catalá de Paleontologia Miquel Crusafont) Buzz-pollinated tree A new tree species discovered in Gabon has flowers that have intrigued scientists because they are similar to those of completely unrelated plants that are pollinated by bees using "buzz pollination." That kind of pollination happens when bees create vibrations in the air with their wings, and it has never been seen before in this type of plant. This new species of flowering tree was discovered in Monts de Cristal National Park, Gabon. (Thomas Couvrer) Damselfly Sixty new species of dragonfly and damselfly from Africa were named last year in one scientific paper, including this one. It's been named Umma gumma after the band Pink Floyd's 1969 double album — and reportedly a British slang term for sex. Sixty new species of dragonfly and damselfly from Africa were named last year in one scientific paper, including this one. (Jens Kipping) CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Top 10 new species of 2015 include artistic fish, fanged frog Top 10 species of 2014 include olinguito, Antarctic anemone New Galapagos giant tortoise species identified External Links IISE: Top 10 new species of 2016 Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca