https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/alberta-dinosaur-s-head-adorned-with-fleshy-comb-1.2461149
Alberta dinosaur's head adorned with fleshy comb | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Alberta dinosaur's head adorned with fleshy comb Social Sharing Technology & Science Alberta dinosaur's head adorned with fleshy comb An unusually well-preserved fossil of a duck-billed dinosaur has revealed a body part never seen before on any dinosaur. Social Sharing Other dinosaurs may have looked quite different from what bones alone show Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Dec 12, 2013 12:00 PM ET | Last Updated: December 13, 2013 Edmontosaurus's fleshy comb may have been used in social displays during competition for females, as it is in roosters. (Bell, Fanti, Currie, Arbour/Current Biology) comments An unusually well-preserved fossil of a duck-billed dinosaur has revealed a body part never seen before on any dinosaur. The Edmontosaurus regalis specimen found west of Grand Prairie , Alta., last year had a soft, fleshy comb on its head, similar to those found on roosters. "It's a structure that was completely unexpected," said Victoria Arbour, a University of Alberta paleontologist who co-authored the scientific paper published Thursday in the journal Current Biology, describing the new fossil. "It kind of makes us wonder what other dinosaurs might have had." Edmontosaurus had a duck-like bill, and was a plant-eating dinosaur that grew to be 12 metres long — about the length of a bus. It was thought to have roamed North America in herds during the late Cretaceous, about 75 and 65 million years ago, and belonged to a group of dinosaurs known as hadrosaurs, which were the most common dinosaurs on the continent at the time. Fossils typically only preserve the bones of an animal, not fleshy structures such as a rooster's comb or an elephant's trunk. Phil Bell, lead author of the paper, said the new findings are "equivalent to discovering for the first time that elephants had trunks." Bell, a paleontologist at the University of New England in Armidale, Australia, added in a statement, "These findings dramatically alter our perception of the appearance and behaviour of this well-known dinosaur." In particular, the existence of the comb adds to evidence that Edmontosaurus was a social animal, as ornaments like combs and crests are typically used for communication among animals such as roosters, especially in relation to competition for females. "We might imagine a pair of male Edmontosaurus sizing each other up, bellowing, and showing off their head gear to see who was the dominant male and who is in charge of the herd," Bell said. Bell was a paleontologist with the Philip J. Currie Dinosaur Museum currently under construction in Grand Prairie, Alta., when he uncovered the fossil last summer with geologist Federico Fanti of the University of Bologna. The museum is named after a renowned University of Alberta dinosaur expert who also co-authored the new paper. Not a true mummy It was a rare fossil type of fossil that paleontologists describe as "mummified." Arbour said such fossils aren't true mummies, in which flesh is preserved under very dry conditions. Rather, they are simply well-preserved fossils in which the bones are in the same positions relative to each other that they would have been in life, with impressions of the skin preserved on top. At the time Edmontosaurus roamed Alberta, its habitat was actually a subtropical, swampy coastal area, Arbour said. It's not clear what conditions lead the preservation of skin impressions, she added, but it likely involves the animals dying in a flood and being quickly buried by sand or mud. She added that even when skin impressions are preserved, they are often only visible in certain lighting or when the rock breaks a certain way, which may be why combs hadn't been noticed on earlier "mummified" Edmontosaurus fossils. "It's something that's kind of easy to miss." Such impressions would have been lost from the fossils when paleontologists later cleaned the rock away from the bone. While earlier hadrosaurs, had bony crests, researchers thought the crest had been completely lost in Edmontosaurus. The new discovery suggests that, in fact, the dinosaurs' crests had changed, but remained an important feature. Bell said it also suggests that similar structures may have been missed in other dinosaurs. "There's no reason that other strange fleshy structures couldn't have been present on a whole range of other dinosaurs, including T. rex or Triceratops." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Photos Leduc hadrosaur marks Alberta's 2nd fossil find in a month B.C. duck-billed dinosaur find airlifted to new home Construction to begin this spring on new dinosaur museum Northern Alberta hadrosaur called a new species 'Mummified' dinosaur shows breathtaking detail External Links Summary of paper in Current Biology Philip J. Currie Dinosaur Museum Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca