https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/fossils-of-early-human-ancestors-may-fill-chimp-lineage-gap-1.553603
Fossils of early human ancestors may fill chimp lineage gap | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Fossils of early human ancestors may fill chimp lineage gap Social Sharing Technology & Science Fossils of early human ancestors may fill chimp lineage gap Paleontologists find fossils of at least nine ancient hominids in Afar region of Ethiopia. Teeth show human and ape-like features. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jan 19, 2005 7:20 PM ET | Last Updated: January 20, 2005 The remains of at least nine primitive human ancestors up to 4.5 million years old have been discovered by paleontologists working in Ethiopia. The Ardipithecus ramidus fossils show significant ape-like characteristics of the ancient hominids, who lived in woodlands rather than the open savanna. The discovery was made at As Duma in the Afar region of Ethiopia, about 500 kilometres northeast of Addis Ababa. The site has been a rich source of significant fossils for anthropologists. The fossils are mostly teeth and jaw fragments, with some hand and feet bones, Spanish and American researchers report in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. Scientists say Ardipithecus is the earliest hominid after the lineage split to chimpanzee. They hope the finds will help fill in some gaps in their understanding of early human evolution. The canine teeth are small and blunt like those of other human ancestors, while the other teeth, such as the molars, resemble those of great apes. Wear on the teeth suggests the hominids were herbivores, the team reported after a four-year dig that started in 1999. Paleoanthropologist Sileshi Semaw of Indiana University Bloomington and colleagues also found evidence the human ancestors lived near a menagerie of antelope, rhinos, monkeys, giraffes and hippos. Back then, the region was much wetter than today and experienced seasonal droughts, the team said. Although the researchers aren't clear about what sort of habitat the hominids lived in, remains from the area suggest it included swamps, springs and streams. The individuals date to between 4.3 million and 4.5 million years old, according to geological and isotope tests. Other specimens of A. ramidus suggest its skull was aligned on top of its spinal column, instead of in front as in apes. The difference points to an ability to walk upright. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Creatures of the forest? Nature Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca