http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/mercuriceratops-gemini-dinosaur-had-wing-like-headgear-1.2681084
Mercuriceratops gemini dinosaur had wing-like headgear | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Mercuriceratops gemini dinosaur had wing-like headgear Social Sharing Technology & Science Mercuriceratops gemini dinosaur had wing-like headgear A newly discovered horned dinosaur may once have wooed potential mates with a unique, wing-like frill on its head. Social Sharing 'Twin' specimens of dinosaur found in Alberta and Montana CBC News · Posted: Jun 19, 2014 2:34 PM ET | Last Updated: June 19, 2014 Mercuriceratops gemini, centre is related to other horned dinosaurs such as Centrosaurus, left, and Chasmosaurus, right, which were also discovered in the Dinosaur Park Formation in Alberta. (Courtesy Danielle Dufault) comments A newly discovered horned dinosaur may once have wooed potential mates with a unique, wing-like frill on its head. Mercuriceratops gemini was a plant-eating dinosaur about the size of an African elephant that lived in Alberta and Montana about 77 million years ago, during the Late Cretaceous. It was related to other horned dinosaurs like Triceratops, but had headgear "unlike anything we have seen before," said David Evans, curator of vertebrate paleontology at the Royal Ontario Museum, in a news release announcing the discovery. The dinosaur was identified from 'twin' fossils from the Royal Ontario Museum, left, and the University of Alberta, right. (Courtesy Naturwissenschaften) "Just like the Greek god Mercury, who has a winged helmet, our horned dinosaur has a winged shield on the back of its skull," said Michael Ryan, curator of vertebrate paleontology at the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, in a video posted by the museum. Ryan was the lead author and Evans a co-author of a new paper describing the dinosaur, published online in the journal Naturwissenschaften. Summary of the paper in Naturwissenschaften The resemblance to Mercury's winged helmet was where the dinosaur got the first part of its scientific name. The second part of its name, gemini – the Latin word for "twins" – refers to the fact that the dinosaur was discovered from two very similar specimens that died about 400 kilometres apart. One was collected in the Judith River Formation in Montana and later acquired by the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto. The other was collected in the Dinosaur Park Formation of Dinosaur Provincial Park in Alberta by Susan Owen-Kagen, who works in the lab of paleontologist Philip Currie at the University of Alberta. During a visit to Alberta, Owen-Kagen showed Ryan a fossil of the winged head frill she had collected, and he immediately recognized it as being from the same kind of dinosaur as a very similar fossil he had previously seen at the Royal Ontario Museum – it was even from the same side of the dinosaur's head. The researchers think that the frills were used by the dinosaurs to identify each other and attract mates. A red arrow shows the location in a quarry at Dinosaur Provincial Park where one of the Mercuriceratops gemini skull fossils were discovered. ( Courtesy Philip J. Currie) CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Alberta dinosaur's head adorned with fleshy comb Pinocchio rex long-snouted tyrannosaur discovered in Asia 'Chicken from hell' dinosaur gets scientific name Nunavut dinosaur fossil is most northern ever found New dinosaur, cousin of T. Rex, discovered in Arctic External Links News release from Cleveland Museum of Natural History Summary of the paper in Naturwissenschaften Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca