https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/ocean-acidification-needs-more-focus-at-climate-talks-scientists-say-1.3139960
Ocean acidification needs more focus at climate talks, scientists say | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Ocean acidification needs more focus at climate talks, scientists say Social Sharing Technology & Science Ocean acidification needs more focus at climate talks, scientists say The oceans play a key role in absorbing carbon dioxide, but international climate talks have only "minimally considered" the impact the gas is having as it turns these bodies of water acidic, scientists say in a new study. Social Sharing Study calls for 'immediate and substantial' reduction of CO2 emissions CBC News · Posted: Jul 06, 2015 2:47 PM ET | Last Updated: July 7, 2015 A clam is seen among the corals at the Great Barrier Reef in Great Keppel island. Ocean acidification has emerged as one of the biggest modern threats to coral reefs across the world. New evidence indicates ocean acidification once also caused the worst mass extinction in history. (Daniel Munoz/Reuters) comments The oceans play a key role in absorbing carbon dioxide, but international climate talks have only "minimally considered" the impact the gas is having as it turns these bodies of water acidic, scientists say in a new study. More than 20 marine scientists worked to analyze two potential futures. One involves meeting the target set out by the UN-established Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) of limiting the rise in global warming to 2 C through CO2 cuts (the RCP2.6 scenario). The other (RCP8.5) reflects the current trajectory of business-as-usual CO2 emissions. Ocean acidification from CO2 blamed for world's worst mass extinction Rising acidity of oceans a major threat to coral reefs The study, published last week in the journal Science, calls for negotiators at climate talks to stress the impact CO2 is having on ocean acidification. They say their goal is to speak directly to policymakers, adding the study has the backing of the Oceans 2015 Initiative. Summary of the paper in Science That group of experts says that each day, more than a quarter of the carbon dioxide emitted by human activity is absorbed by the oceans. Without this dynamic, the effects of climate change would be far greater. By 2100, scientists predict that the oceans' pH level will have fallen by 0.4 units — or an increase of 150 per cent in ocean acidity — compared to its mid-19th-century level. That corresponds to a three-fold increase in the water's acidity. Acidification makes it more difficult for marine animals to produce skeletons and shells, and puts the essential ocean habitat, coral reefs, at risk of eroding faster than they can be rebuilt. Beaufort Sea's fish population at risk due to acidification: study Pink salmon threatened by greenhouse gases and acidification in rivers Researchers taking part in the study say ocean warming and acidification are expected to "act synergistically to push corals and coral reefs into conditions that are unfavourable for coral reef ecosystems." While they praised the goal of cutting emissions in order to keep warming to no more than 2 C above the pre-industrial level, they also said that scenario could still leave important marine ecosystems "substantially" altered. "If CO2 levels are kept to the RCP2.6 scenario, by 2100, the risk of impact increases to high for warm-water corals and mid-latitude bivalves," the study said. "Projections with RCP8.5 indicate a very high risk of impact on most marine organisms considered." The researchers said that to avoid that kind of risk requires limiting the increase in global surface temperature between 1990 and 2100 to below 2°C and the increase in SST (sea surface temperature) below 1.2°C. Their analysis, they said, shows "immediate and substantial" reduction of CO2 emissions is required in order to prevent the "massive and effectively irreversible impacts" on ocean ecosystems that are projected with emissions scenarios more severe than those under the two-degree warming limit. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Blog Urgent IPCC climate change warning demands action: Bob McDonald Ocean acidification from CO2 blamed for world's worst mass extinction Climate change impact on lobster already visible Methane-spewing microbe blamed in worst mass extinction Rising acidity of oceans a major threat to coral reefs Worst extinction ever linked to massive CO2 spill External Links Summary of the paper in Science Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca