http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/denisovans-molars-1.3318432
Denisovans: Ancient teeth reveal more about mysterious human relatives | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Denisovans: Ancient teeth reveal more about mysterious human relatives Social Sharing Technology & Science Denisovans: Ancient teeth reveal more about mysterious human relatives Scientists have uncovered new information about the Denisovans, a mysterious group of human relatives that interbred with ancient humans in Asia. Social Sharing Denisovans ranged widely across Asia for tens of thousands of years, tooth DNA suggests CBC News · Posted: Nov 16, 2015 3:00 PM ET | Last Updated: November 18, 2015 Evolutionary geneticist Svante Pääbo, seen visiting Denisova cave, says Denisovans show as much genetic diversity as Neanderthals, who ranged from Spain to Siberia. (Bence Viola) comments Scientists have uncovered new information about the Denisovans, a mysterious group of human relatives that interbred with ancient humans in Asia. The Denisovans had very large and unusual teeth, unlike those of humans or Neanderthals, reports an international team from Germany, Canada and Russia. New DNA evidence suggests they likely ranged across much of Asia for tens of thousands of years and weren't just a small, isolated population, the researchers wrote in a paper published today in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. The mysterious relatives of Neanderthals and modern humans were first recognized in 2010, based on DNA in the finger bone of a young girl found in Denisova cave in Siberia's Altai Mountains. The Denisovans had very large, unusual teeth unlike those of humans or Neanderthals, reports an international team from Germany, Canada and Russia. (Bence Viola/University of Toronto) Analysis of that genome showed that Denisovans interbred with modern humans – about five per cent of the DNA of native Papua New Guineans and Australians and 0.2 per cent of the DNA of Asians and Native Americans is Denisovan. Now, scientists have analyzed two molars found in Denisova cave and confirmed that they belong to two adult male Denisovans. University of Toronto researcher Bence Viola, a co-author of the paper, was at the cave when a fragment of the first tooth was discovered. "I thought, 'Oh, that actually looks very human-like,'" he recalled in an interview with CBC News. But when the rest of the tooth was found, he began to have doubts. "I thought, 'This is too big. This doesn't look human-like at all.'" Coming up: Bence Viola talks to Quirks & Quarks Nov. 21 at noon on CBC Radio One A colleague who was an expert on Neanderthals thought it might belong to a cave bear. But DNA analysis showed the tooth actually belonged to a Denisovan. "In its size, it's comparable to hominins that lived two or three million years ago…but the age of it shows that it's very recent," said Viola, who analyzed the physical characteristics of the teeth. Denisova cave is located in the Altai mountains of Russia. Fossils of Neaderthals, Denisovans, and ancient modern humans have all been found there. (Bence Viola) While individuals have different tooth sizes, finding two teeth this large from two different, unrelated individuals suggests "the whole group probably had very large and weird teeth." They also likely had a very large and robust jaw to support such long tooth roots. But aside from that, we know nothing about what they looked like. 60,000 years in Siberia Differences in the DNA in the two teeth, along with the layers of the cave in which they were found, suggest that the two men lived about 60,000 years apart. The more recent would have lived around 50,000 to 70,000 years ago, while the earlier would have lived up to 130,000 years ago. University of Toronto researcher Bence Viola said when he saw the first fragment of tooth, he thought it looked 'very human-like,' but later began to have doubts. (Bence Viola) The Denisovans also show as much genetic diversity as Neanderthals that lived as far away from one another as Spain and Siberia, said Svante Paabo, an evolutionary geneticist at Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Germany, in an interview with CBCNews.ca. "It just sort of in general would indicate they have a long history where they had substantial numbers of individuals in the population," added Paabo, another co-author of the paper. If that's the case, why have we never found any other Denisovan remains outside the Denisova cave? Viola suspects other Denisovan remains have already been uncovered in China – they just haven't been recognized as Denisovan yet. "I'm really convinced," he said. "The genetic data shows that these guys were spread over large parts of Asia, so we must have them." In size, the Denisovan teeth are more similar in size to those of ancient human ancestors who lived in Africa two to three million years ago, rather than to those of humans or Neanderthals. (Bence Viola/University of Toronto) CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Genome of Denisovan cave girl sheds light on human ancestry Neanderthals' incest, interspecies sex revealed by genome Ancient human relative's DNA puzzles scientists Sex with Neanderthals boosted human immunity External Links Summary of the paper in PNAS Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca