http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/birds-dinosaurs-1.3548265
Why birds were the only dinosaurs that survived mass extinction | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Why birds were the only dinosaurs that survived mass extinction Social Sharing Technology & Science Why birds were the only dinosaurs that survived mass extinction Birds are the only lineage of dinosaurs that survived after an asteroid smashed into the Earth 66 million years ago, causing a mass extinction. Now Canadian scientists think they've figured out why. Social Sharing Beaks would have allowed birds to survive on seeds while their toothed cousins starved CBC News · Posted: Apr 22, 2016 10:31 AM ET | Last Updated: April 25, 2016 Many dinosaurs that lived at the end of the Cretaceous period, like the two at the top of this image, were very bird-like: they were covered in feathers, had bird-like proportions and ran on two legs. Some even had wings. But what set apart the ancestors of modern birds, like the creature in the foreground, was the beak. (Danielle Dufault) Birds are the only lineage of dinosaurs that survived after an asteroid smashed into the Earth 66 million years ago, causing a mass extinction. Now Canadian scientists think they've figured out why. While many dinosaurs at that time were very bird-like — they were covered in feathers, had bird-like proportions, ran around on two legs and some even had wings — there was one thing that set birds' ancestors apart: they had beaks instead of teeth. And that's what made the difference in their survival, the researchers propose in a new paper published in Current Biology. When the asteroid hit at the end of the Cretaceous period, it produced "basically what would have been a prolonged nuclear winter," said lead author Derek Larson in an interview with Quirks & Quarks. Download the MP3 of the interview or listen to the rest of the show Mass starvation The energy of the impact would have set off raging forest fires, while the dust and debris that mushroomed into the sky would have blotted out the sun for weeks, killing off plants and the herbivores that ate them. "While you would think this would be a great time to be if you were a meat-eating dinosaur, because there would be all these dead animals, that's really a short-term resource," said Larson, assistant curator at Alberta's Philip J. Currie Dinosaur Museum and a Ph.D. candidate at the University of Toronto. "The remains of all of these extinct animals would have relatively quickly decayed away." The only thing left to eat would likely have been seeds. "Plants produce many, many more seeds than germinate in a given year and many of them can remain dormant in soils for decades," Larson said. Most dinosaurs would have been unable to crack open these seeds using their sharp, pointed teeth. But the ancestors of modern birds, with their beaks, could happily keep on feasting as other animals starved. How dinosaurs shrank into birds Chicken embryos grown with dinosaur-like lower legs Even today, Larson said, seeds remain the most plentiful resource in areas devastated by forest fires — and seed-eating birds are the first animals to recolonize them. No decline Larson and his colleagues came up with their explanation after a painstaking study on how maniraptorans — dinosaurs very closely related to birds — went extinct. They examined 3,100 maniraptoran teeth from western North American dating to the last 18 million years of the Cretaceous period, and they found a huge variety of species adapted to different kinds of food, ranging from worms and insects to the meat of larger animals like mammals. Researchers examined 3,100 maniraptoran teeth from the last 18 million years of the Cretaceous period and found a huge variety of species adapted to different kinds of food, ranging from worms and insects, to the meat of larger animals. (Don Brinkman) At that time, other dinosaur groups — such as the giant, four-legged, plant-eating sauropods — were already in decline and scientists proposed that the asteroid simply dealt the final deadly blow. But that didn't seem to be the case for maniraptorans, which appeared to be thriving until they suddenly disappeared after the asteroid hit. "We simply don't have any remains in the fossil record of these animals after the extinction," said Larson. That's what led Larson and his colleagues to propose their explanation for the vastly different fates of maniraptorans and their very similar, close cousins, the birds. Dinosaurs were declining long before asteroid hit, study suggests 80-million-year-old bird fossil named after 82-year-old Manitoba farmer Interestingly, while maniraptoran fossils from the end of the Cretaceous period were abundant, the remains of modern birds were not. But because their close relatives were abundant then and their descendants are abundant now, Larson said "we know they were there." The study was co-authored by Caleb Brown, a postdoctoral fellow at the Royal Tyrell Museum of Paleontology in Drumheller, Alta., and David Evans, Temerty Chair and Curator in Vertebrate Palaeontology at the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto and an associate professor at the University of Toronto. It was funded by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council, the Doris O. and Samuel P. Welles Research Fund and the Dinosaur Research Institute. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Dinosaurs were declining long before asteroid hit, study suggests How dinosaurs shrank into birds 80-million-year-old bird fossil named after 82-year-old Manitoba farmer Dinosaur extinction was caused by asteroid and volcanoes, study says Dinosaur museum in small-town Alberta hopes to hit the big time External Links Full paper in Current Biology Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca