https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/space-shuttle-discovery-feted-at-new-home-1.1288094
Space shuttle Discovery feted at new home | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Space shuttle Discovery feted at new home Social Sharing Technology & Science Space shuttle Discovery feted at new home The space shuttle Discovery received a rousing welcome today as it was officially unveiled at its new home at the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum. Social Sharing Discovery to replace Enterprise orbiter, which heads to New York CBC News · Posted: Apr 19, 2012 10:14 AM ET | Last Updated: April 19, 2012 The space shuttle Discovery received a rousing welcome Thursday as it was officially unveiled at its new home at the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum. Discovery, NASA's most travelled space shuttle, was greeted by huge crowds of visitors as it arrived at the museum's Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center in Chantilly, Va., Thursday, accompanied by astronauts who once rode it into space and music from the U.S. marines' drum and bugle corps. The space shuttle Discovery was suspended from a sling held by two cranes Thursday after being separated from the jumbo jet that carried it to Washington Dulles International Airport. (Bill Ingalls/NASA/Associated Press) Discovery was retired from service last year, along with its sister shuttles Atlantis and Endeavour, when NASA ended its 30-year shuttle program. On Tuesday, Discovery was carried piggyback on a Boeing 747 jet from Kennedy Space Center in Florida to Washington Dulles International Airport in Sterling, Va. — its final flight after logging nearly 240 million kilometres over 39 orbital missions. On Thursday morning, Discovery was met nose-to-nose by the Enterprise, a space shuttle prototype that NASA used for test flights on Earth but that never went into space. Discovery is taking the place of Enterprise at the Udvar-Hazy Center. Enterprise had been there since the centre opened in 2003, but is moving to the Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum in New York on Monday. Endeavour will go on display at the California Science Center in Los Angeles, while Atlantis will remain at the Kennedy Space Center. Smithsonian curator Valerie Neal told the Associated Press that the top question museum visitors have been asking about Discovery is whether they will be able to walk inside or see the flight deck. "We don't permit that here because we treat all of the aircraft and spacecraft as artifacts, not as exhibit props," she said. Allowing people to walk inside would require cutting a bigger hatch, among other modifications. "To make the shuttle accessible to the public, we would have to damage it, and we just do not want to do that," Neal said. Instead, the museum has created 360-degree interactive pictures of Discovery's flight deck and mid deck. Soon there will also be images of the payload bay accessible at kiosks near where Discovery will be displayed. That will allow visitors to have a view from the commander's seat and then float through the various compartments to explore the shuttle. A companion exhibit at the museum on the National Mall will include a model of Discovery's mid deck where visitors can climb inside and see a shuttle toilet (think vacuum cleaner) and other features. With files from the Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Photos Space shuttles: The end of an era Video Space shuttle Discovery airlifted into retirement Shuttle Discovery: A look at the storied past of NASA's workhorse Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca