https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/astronauts-dream-of-mars-on-moon-landing-anniversary-1.800922
Astronauts dream of Mars on moon landing anniversary | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Astronauts dream of Mars on moon landing anniversary Social Sharing Technology & Science Astronauts dream of Mars on moon landing anniversary Forty years after the first moonwalk, former Apollo astronauts expressed disappointment Monday that no human has yet set foot on Mars. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 20, 2009 12:19 PM ET | Last Updated: July 20, 2009 Apollo 17 commander Eugene Cernan said he had been sure humans would be on Mars by the end of the century. ((NASA TV)) Forty years after the first moonwalk, former Apollo astronauts expressed disappointment Monday that no human has yet set foot on Mars. "My glass has been half empty for three decades at least," Eugene Cernan said Monday. "But hopefully we can turn that around." Cernan was one of seven former Apollo astronauts — including Apollo 11's Buzz Aldrin — at a NASA news conference on Monday to commemorate the successful landing of Apollo 11 astronauts on the moon on July 20, 1969. Cernan said when he completed his moon voyage with Apollo 17 in December 1972, he was sure humans would be back within a decade and would make it to Mars by the end of the century. At that time, "no one" thought otherwise, said Walt Cunningham, the lunar module pilot for the Apollo 7 mission. The astronauts at the news conference seemed unanimous in their desire for humans to go to Mars. That would inspire a passion among children to pursue science and do something unique, Cernan argued. Most children nowadays can't name any astronauts on the space station, he said, and the only real inspiration in recent space science comes from the images and findings of the Hubble telescope. "Beyond that, unfortunately, science is dull," he said. Funding, technology hurdles Apollo 11 astronaut Buzz Aldrin said a one-way mission to Mars would be much cheaper than a return trip. ((NASA TV)) The astronauts differed, however, in opinions about what it would take to get to Mars. Cernan said humans should go back to the moon to learn more and develop the technology for travel to Mars — something called for by the Global Exploration Strategy developed by 14 space agencies around the world in 2007. Aldrin advocated sending astronauts instead on a one-way mission to Mars, as sending them there and supplying them for the rest of their lives would cost far less than a return trip. Some of the astronauts pointed out that the space program is an investment that has paid off in new technologies that have improved our lives. Cunningham said decision-makers need to recognize the difference between an investment and an expenditure, and be willing to fund space exploration. He suggested that part of the problem is the U.S. has become a risk-averse society in recent decades. "There are things worth risking your life for," he added. Some of the astronauts also criticized the U.S. decision to stop sending spacecraft to the International Space Station. James Lovell, who flew on the Apollo 8 and Apollo 13 missions, said the station is "almost a white elephant" as little science has come out of it, and much is left to be done. "Until we can get a return on our investment," he said. "Then it was money wasted." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories CBC ARCHIVES: One giant leap: The moon landing A timeline of moon landings PHOTO GALLERY: Snapshots of the moon Moon-landing astronauts focus on Mars Canadian astronauts predict new lunar missions Canada and the moon: Past and future missions Moon landing conspiracy theories persist Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca