https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/arctic-ice-melting-faster-than-feared-study-1.898984
Arctic ice melting faster than feared: study | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Arctic ice melting faster than feared: study Social Sharing Technology & Science Arctic ice melting faster than feared: study The head of the largest climate change study ever undertaken in Canada says the Arctic sea ice is thinning faster than expected. Social Sharing John Bowman · CBC News · Posted: Feb 05, 2010 3:15 PM ET | Last Updated: February 6, 2010 The head of the largest climate change study ever undertaken in Canada says the Arctic sea ice is thinning faster than expected. The Canadian Coast Guard ship Amundsen remained mobile all winter during the Arctic Ocean for the Circumpolar Flaw Lead study. ((Emily Chung/CBC)) "It's happening much faster than our most pessimistic projections," said University of Manitoba Prof. David Barber, the lead investigator of the Circumpolar Flaw Lead study. A flaw lead is the term for open water between pack ice and coastal ice. The study aboard the Canadian Coast Guard research ship Amundsen began in July 2007 and involved 370 scientists from around the world. It was the first time a research vessel had ever remained mobile in open water in the Far North. Barber called the expedition climate scientists' "first opportunity to look at what the Arctic Ocean looks like in the middle of winter." They found that Arctic sea ice is disappearing faster than scientists expected. "We're seeing it happen more quickly than our model thought [it] would happen," said Barber. Warning for the south "It's an early indicator of what we can expect to happen further south," Barber said at a news conference in Winnipeg. "We can expect things to happen faster here, too." Barber said the human impact on climate is being superimposed on the natural variation in climate and temperature. The result is more variability in the climate: warm spells are getting warmer and the cold spells are getting colder. The researchers also found that storms have become more frequent in the North as the sea ice thins. "There are more storms now because there's more open oceans and those storms are having a dramatic impact on the sea ice," said Barber. The storms drop precipitation, mostly snow, on the sea ice and the snow insulates the ice, keeping it from growing thicker. Barber said much of the research undertaken on the Amundsen involved measuring the effects of changing climate on the Arctic. "We know we're losing sea ice. What you're not aware of is … what the consequences of this change are," said Barber. 'Sea ice breathes' Barber compared the impact of losing sea ice in the Arctic to the loss of trees in a tropical rain forest. The Arctic sea ice isn't just a cap on top of the ocean, Barber said. "The sea ice breathes," he said. "It pumps carbon dioxide in and out." The researchers also found pollutants in the sea ice. "The Arctic is not as pristine as you would like to think it is. It's actually a dumping ground for a lot of contaminants," he said. The Circumpolar Flaw Lead study was not only the largest climate study ever undertaken in Canada, Barber said, but the biggest study conducted during the International Polar Year. The Canadian government provided $156 million in funding for the research during the International Polar Year from 2007-09. The expedition involved 10 science teams, studying every aspect of the Arctic environment, from microbes to mammals to weather systems. Barber anticipated that each one of those teams would have at least 10 papers published in peer-reviewed journals. Barber also emphasized the role that traditional aboriginal knowledge played in the research, especially in mapping the edges of sea ice. Barber said it's now up to governments to find solutions for climate change. "[Scientists] don't just write for each other. We have to write for the policy-makers," said Barber. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Canada's Arctic researchers call for polar policy Houses, Arctic research facility among budget goodies for North Arctic research station belongs in Northwest Passage: polar commission Northern exposure: Arctic research means long trips, big rewards Science on an icebreaker Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca