https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/hobbit-species-made-their-own-tools-scientists-say-1.618002
'Hobbit' species made their own tools, scientists say | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news 'Hobbit' species made their own tools, scientists say Social Sharing Technology & Science 'Hobbit' species made their own tools, scientists say The dwarf species of "Hobbits" that survived on a remote Indonesian island were able to build stone tools despite their small brains, scientists say, rebutting doubters. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: May 31, 2006 1:22 PM ET | Last Updated: May 31, 2006 The dwarf species of "Hobbits"that survived on a remote Indonesian island were able to build stone tools despite their small brains, say the scientists who first discovered the intriguing species, rebutting doubters. The species, Homo floresiensis, lived in a cave on the island of Flores until 12,000 years ago. Bones of at least nine individuals were found in sediments dating to around 18,000 years ago. The adults were about three feet tall with brains the size of a grapefruit, Mike Morwood, of the University of New England in Australia first said in 2003. A cache of tools were found near the Liang Bua cave, along with butchered animals, including a species of miniature elephant that is now extinct. Some paleontologists have argued these tinyhominids wouldn't have had the brainpower to make such tools, and that modern humans must have crafted them. Now Morwood and his colleagues are defending their research, saying the toolscame downfrom an older tradition. "The authenticity of the Soa Basin artifacts and their provenance have been demonstrated by previous work, but to quell lingering doubts, here we describe the context, attributes and production modes of 507 artifacts excavated at Mata Menge," they wrote in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. "We also note specific similarities, and apparent technological continuity, between the Mata Menge stone artifacts and those excavated from Late Pleistocene levels at Liang Bua cave, 50 kilometresto the west." These older tools date back more than 800,000 years, but the flint blades appear to have been made the same way. The findings suggest H. floresiensis likely inherited toolmaking skills from their ancestors, the researchers said. Saying H. floresiensis lacked the brain size needed to make stone tools is based on preconceptions rather than evidence, they note. Whether H. floresiensis represents a new species of hominid, or a dwarf strain of early humans, continues to spark debate among scientists. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories 'Hobbit' fossil: dwarf or new species? External Links Abstract of tool study, Nature Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca