https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/famed-galapagos-tortoise-lonesome-george-dies-1.1176555
Famed Galapagos tortoise Lonesome George dies | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Famed Galapagos tortoise Lonesome George dies Social Sharing Technology & Science Famed Galapagos tortoise Lonesome George dies The giant Galapagos Islands tortoise dubbed Lonesome George, whose failed efforts to produce offspring made him a symbol of disappearing species, has died. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Jun 25, 2012 8:57 AM ET | Last Updated: June 25, 2012 The giant Galapagos Islands tortoise dubbed Lonesome George, whose failed efforts to produce offspring made him a symbol of disappearing species, was found dead on Sunday, officials at the Galapagos National Park announced. Lonesome George was believed to be the last living member of the Pinta Island subspecies and had become an ambassador of sorts for the islands off Ecuador's coast, whose unique flora and fauna helped inspire Charles Darwin's ideas on evolution. The tortoise's age was not known, but scientists believed it was about 100, not especially old for giant tortoises, who can live well over a century. Scientists had expected the tortoise to live another few decades at least. Various mates had been provided for Lonesome George after it was found in 1972 in what proved unsuccessful attempts to keep the subspecies alive. It lived at a tortoise breeding centre on the archipelago's island of Santa Cruz. It was found Sunday morning in its pen by its longtime keeper, Fausto Llerena, the park said in a statement. Attempts were initially made to mate Lonesome George with two female tortoises from Wolf Volcano. But the eggs they produced were infertile. Two females from Spanish Island's tortoise population, the species most closely related to Pinta tortoises, were placed with George last year. The park said the cause of death would be investigated. The Galapagos' giant tortoise population was decimated after the arrival of humans, but a recovery program run by the park and the Charles Darwin Foundation has increased the overall population from 3,000 in 1974 to 20,000 today. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories 'Extinct' tortoise likely still exists, scientists say Galapagos bachelor tortoise struggles to be a dad The evolution of Charles Darwin (Audio) Charles Darwin and the origins of evolution (Archives) Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca