http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/biggest-el-nino-of-our-generation-may-be-tempered-by-the-blob-1.3194415
'Biggest El Nino of our generation' may be tempered by The Blob | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news 'Biggest El Nino of our generation' may be tempered by The Blob Social Sharing Technology & Science 'Biggest El Nino of our generation' may be tempered by The Blob A massive El Nino could bring relief to some drought-stricken areas, but climatologists are debating the outcome of the battle between this 'Godzilla' El Nino and another Pacific ocean phenomenon called The Blob. Social Sharing Climatologists unsure of outcome of battle of 'Godzilla' El Nino vs. the Pacific Blob Kim Brunhuber · CBC News · Posted: Aug 19, 2015 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: August 19, 2015 Climatologist Bill Patzert at NASA's Jet Propulsion Lab calls the current El Niño "Godzilla" due to the scale of its potential impact on the world's weather. (Kim Brunhuber) comments For many drought-weary Californians, it has become the 'Great Wet Hope.' Bill Patzert, a climatologist with NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, has given it a less enthusiastic nickname. "This is the Godzilla El Nino," Patzert says. "This potentially could be the El Nino of our generation." El Nino is the term for a massive patch of warm water that appears in the Equatorial Pacific every few years, affecting weather patterns across the world. Typically, its appearance means more rain on the Pacific coast and a milder winter east of the Rockies. El Nino this year could be a record-breaker El Nino will be a hurricane slayer, forecasters predict Ocean 'blob' could be responsible for warmer temperatures "Places that are normally dry get extremely wet, and of course that would include the American west," Patzert says. "So we're kayaking down the street in Los Angeles, and they're playing golf in February in Minneapolis." Climatologists suspected El Nino was coming. Now they're predicting it'll be even bigger than they thought. Sea surface temperature anomalies for May 2014. Warmer colours indicate warm temperatures. (NOAA) Sea surface temperature anomalies for May 2015. Warmer colours indicate warm temperatures, and are particularly noticeable around the equator and South America. (NOAA) "A large El Nino like we saw in 1997 and 1982 has a big impact not only on the U.S. and Canada, but (also) all over the planet," Patzert says. "The signal that we see in the Pacific from space is actually larger than it was in August of 1997." In 1997, a massive El Nino brought floods, mudslides and hurricanes. In California it killed 17 people and caused half a billion dollars of damage. For a state facing critical water shortages, the idea of getting a year's-worth of precipitation in one winter sounds appealing. But Patzert says be careful what you wish for, "because El Nino comes at you like a fire hose. So you're standing there with a champagne glass trying to catch a little water, and in the meantime, the hillsides behind you are sliding into your neighbourhood." And he says it'll take more than El Nino to erase California's drought. "It took us many years to creep into this drought, and El Nino is no quick fix," Patzert says. "It will take us many years of above-normal rainfall to crawl out of it. So a wet winter in California, the Pacific Northwest and western Canada is really five or six big storms ... so it'll be sweet. But it's no drought-buster." The Blob And, Patzert says, there's a big 'if.' "If it matures and comes to fruition." Climatologists say don't buy that ark now … they've been wrong before. El Ninos are hard to predict, and this year, something is making it even trickier. Unusually warm temperatures have been dominating three areas of the North Pacific: the Bering Sea, Gulf of Alaska and an area off Southern California. The darker the red, the higher the sea's surface temperature is above average . (NOAA) Lurking out in the North Pacific there's a different mass of warm water, like El Nino but in a different place, known as the Blob. "The Blob is a result of a high pressure system that has parked itself in the Gulf of Alaska for the past few years that has driven the polar jet stream north into northern Canada," Patzert says, "and then it plunged rapidly out of northern Canada into the American midwest and northeast. And so the result was hot dry winters on the west coast, and fierce winters with heavy snow pack in the midwest." Now climatologists are wondering what will happen when these two opposite systems collide. Patzert says it's kind of like a bad '50s horror movie: 'Godzilla' El Nino versus The Blob. "The Blob is still there. It's very strong, very large, but it's relatively shallow," Patzert says. "So it's the Blob — which is a drought pattern — versus the El Nino, which is a drenching pattern." What actually happens depends on where the El Nino peaks and when it fades. It could be historic, Patzert says. Or it could be not much of anything at all. About the Author Kim Brunhuber Los Angeles correspondent Kim Brunhuber is a CBC News Senior Reporter based in Los Angeles. He has travelled the world from Sierra Leone to Afghanistan as a videojournalist, shooting and editing pieces for TV, radio and online. Originally from Montreal, he speaks French and Spanish, and is also a published novelist. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories El Nino this year could be a record-breaker Ocean 'blob' could be responsible for warmer temperatures El Nino will be a hurricane slayer, forecasters predict Ocean 'blob' of warm water bringing poor food for B.C. wild salmon "The Blob" wreaking havoc in the Pacific Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca