https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/space-worms-land-in-b-c-after-hopping-shuttle-1.660109
Space worms land in B.C., after hopping shuttle | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Space worms land in B.C., after hopping shuttle Social Sharing Technology & Science Space worms land in B.C., after hopping shuttle Thousands of worms that hitched a ride to Earth on the shuttle Atlantis are at a B.C. university, where they could shed light on how space radiation affects humans. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jun 25, 2007 2:08 PM ET | Last Updated: June 25, 2007 Thousands of worms that hitched a ride to Earth on the shuttle Atlantishave arrived safelyat a B.C. university, where they could shed light on how space radiation affects humans. The worms landed with the shuttle Friday afternoon at Edwards Air Force Base in California, six months after their ancestors — now long dead — were sent to the International Space Station. "The worms are at the lab and appear to be fine," molecular biologist Bob Johnsen told CBC News on Monday. The wormswere sent tothe space stationto multiply rapidly, a special skill of the C. elegans worm, so Johnsen and his research team at Simon Fraser University in Burnaby could examine their descendants' genes for mutations. "We are looking for damage to DNA caused by space radiation," Johnsen told CBC News. The goal is to relate the information to potential effects on humans, who — from a scientific perspective — have a lot in common with the pencil-tip-sized wrigglers. "Both genomes have been sequenced and comparisons show that at least 50 per cent of genes are similar and therefore probably have similar functions. That includes DNA repair systems," said Johnsen. "The worms have the basics of higher organisms— muscle, gut, nervous system, skin, complex reproductive system.The worm is transparent and the entire cell lineage is known," he said. "We can take DNA from worms from space and run it against a chip [DNA microarray] to see if there is any damage." It will take several months before they can draw any conclusions. Each C. elegans worm lives only a week or two, but itsoffspring number in the hundreds. While worms and other creatures have made their homes on the International Space Station before, this is the longest duration and the first time many generations have developed in space. In 2003, C. elegans worms being used for other research were found intact in the wreckage of the Columbia space shuttle. The Simon Fraser researchers are among several groups studying the worms. Some of the observers included students who watched them during the six-month voyage using special cameras set up on the space station. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Live worms found in shuttle wreckage IN DEPTH: Canada and the International Space Station The shuttle has landed External Links Simon Fraser research paper Simon Fraser research paper Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca