https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/oldest-star-map-found-among-cave-drawings-1.213876
Oldest star map found among cave drawings | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Oldest star map found among cave drawings Social Sharing Technology & Science Oldest star map found among cave drawings Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Aug 09, 2000 3:00 PM ET | Last Updated: August 9, 2000 A German researcher says a prehistoric cave drawing is actually a map of the stars the oldest yet discovered. The map is about 16,500 years old. It was discovered among paintings inside caves in Lascaux, France. Dr. Michael Rappengluck, of the Institute for Interdisciplinary Studies in Furstenfeldbruck near Munich, says one of the drawings shows a bull, a birdman and a bird that represent the stars Vega, Deneb and Altair which make up the Summer Triangle. He says another drawing of a bull represents the Pleiades star cluster, otherwise known as the Seven Sisters. Today this region of the sky forms part of the constellation Taurus. Four teenagers discovered the Lascaux cave in 1940 when a hole opened in the ground following the fall of a big pine tree several years before. The news of the discovery spread quickly and archeologists have been studying the site ever since. Rappengluck has also found a drawing of the Northern Crown constellation among 14,000-year-old cave paintings in El Castillo, Spain. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links The cave of Lascaux Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca