https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/trump-win-climate-change-1.3843157
Trump win the 'most miserable U.S. election result' for fighting climate change, scientists say | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Trump win the 'most miserable U.S. election result' for fighting climate change, scientists say Social Sharing Technology & Science Trump win the 'most miserable U.S. election result' for fighting climate change, scientists say The election of a U.S. president who has called global warming a "hoax" raised questions Wednesday about America's involvement in the Paris Agreement on climate change — and the future of the deal itself. Social Sharing At UN climate talks, members wonder if they can push forward with the Paris Agreement without the U.S. The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 09, 2016 9:25 AM ET | Last Updated: November 9, 2016 U.S. President-elect Donald Trump greets supporters during his election night rally in Manhattan, New York, U.S., November 9, 2016. REUTERS/Mike Segar - RTX2SPMR (Mike Segar/Reuters) comments The election of a U.S. president who has called global warming a "hoax" raised questions Wednesday about America's involvement in the Paris Agreement on climate change — and the future of the deal itself. Several scientists warned that Earth will likely reach dangerous levels of warming if president-elect Donald Trump fulfills his campaign pledges to undo the Obama administration's climate policies. Many people at UN climate talks in Morocco said it's now up to the rest of the world to lead efforts to rein in greenhouse gas emissions. Others held out hope that Trump would change his stance and honour U.S. commitments under the Paris Agreement . UN members avoid Trump talk at climate conference Growing fears Trump would scrap Paris climate deal "Now that the election campaign has passed and the realities of leadership settle in, I expect he will realize that climate change is a threat to his people and to whole countries which share seas with the U.S., including my own," Marshall Islands President Hilda Heine said in a statement. Small island nations fear they will be swallowed by rising seas. Moving forward without the U.S. More than 100 countries, including the U.S., have formally joined the agreement, which seeks to reduce emissions and help vulnerable countries adapt to rising seas, intensifying heat waves, the spreading of deserts and other changes from human-made warming. "It seems like a most miserable U.S. election result for climate stewardship prospects," said Jason Box, a glacier expert at the Geological Survey of Denmark and Greenland. "Can the world do climate stewardship without the U.S.? It has to." Alden Meyer of the Union of Concerned Scientists, a veteran U.S. observer of the climate talks, said he hopes Trump will adopt a more "responsible" view of climate change once he takes office. "Even he does not have the power to amend and change the laws of physics, to stop the impacts of climate change, to stop the rising sea levels," Meyer said. 'Climate progress is dead' Others weren't so sure, with scientists and environmental activists calling Trump's election a planetary disaster. "The Paris Agreement and any U.S. leadership in international climate progress is dead," said Dana Fisher, director of the Program for Society and the Environment at the University of Maryland, said in an email. However, the transition toward cleaner energy is so entrenched in the U.S. it would continue without federal money, she added. May Boeve, leader of the 350.org environmental group, called the election results a "disaster." Even he does not have the power to amend and change the laws of physics, to stop the impacts of climate change, to stop the rising sea levels. - Alden Meyer, Union of Concerned Scientists The U.S., under the Bush administration, declined to join the previous climate deal, the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which greatly reduced the accord's impact. But President Barack Obama made climate change a priority and was instrumental in making the Paris accord come together. The goal is to keep the rise in global temperature below 2 C compared with preindustrial times. Temperatures, though, have already gone up by half that amount. Trump pledged in May to "cancel" the Paris deal. "Without U.S. action to reduce emissions and U.S. diplomatic leadership, implementation of Paris will surely slow and avoiding a 2 degree warming, the benchmark of danger, would become impossible," said Princeton University climate scientist Michael Oppenheimer via email. Cuts promised in Paris deal not nearly enough Carbon dioxide levels reach highest point ever About 21 per cent of the accord's expected reductions in heat-trapping gases through 2030 were to come from the United States, according to Drew Jones, co-director of Climate Interactive, a group of researchers who model climate emissions and temperatures. Trump has called for stripping regulations to allow unfettered production of coal, oil and natural gas — a key source of emissions — and rescinding the Clean Power Plan, an Obama administration strategy to fight climate change. Trump told an oil and gas conference in North Dakota he would "save the coal industry" and stop using tax dollars for global warming programs. If the U.S. drags its feet on climate in the next four years, then there is nothing stopping the rest of the world doing an awful lot. - Glen Peters, Center for International Climate and Environmental Research But it's unlikely that Trump's actions would reopen coal mines or coal-fired power plants. What really killed coal in the United States is much cheaper natural gas from hydraulic fracturing or fracking, said former astronaut Jay Apt, now co-director of the Carnegie Mellon Electricity Industry Center. In a phone interview from Pittsburgh, Apt said it is likely the nation will use even less coal if Trump opens up more drilling and the price of natural gas drops. The pro-fossil fuels American Energy Alliance said Trump's victory presents a chance to reset "harmful energy policies" in the U.S. 4 years to pull out, but Trump can ignore targets While shell-shocked American climate activists in Marrakech cried and embraced, U.S. negotiators declined to speak to reporters about the election outcome. Before the two-week conference, U.S. officials said they expect other countries to stay the course no matter what Washington decides. Li Shuo, a climate policy expert at Greenpeace in China, said his nation — the world's top polluter — would continue to work on climate change "out of its own very genuine concern." The Eiffel tower is illuminated in green with the words 'Paris Agreement is Done' to celebrate the the UN climate agreement on Nov. 4. With Trump elected to be the next president of the U.S., that deal is now in jeopardy. (Jacky Naegelen/Reuters) Any U.S. withdrawal would take four years — an entire presidential term — under the terms of the agreement. However, Trump could also decide to simply ignore the U.S. pledge to reduce emissions by 26-28 per cent from 2005 levels by 2025. There is no punishment for countries that miss their targets. "If the U.S. drags its feet on climate in the next four years, then there is nothing stopping the rest of the world doing an awful lot," scientist Glen Peters of the Center for International Climate and Environmental Research in Oslo, Norway, said in an email. Trump's win sparked hopes among the minority of researchers who disagree with the overwhelming scientific consensus that global warming is a major threat. "Expect some long awaited, rigorous examination of the theory/models," John Christy of the University of Alabama, Huntsville, said in an email. "The danger just isn't there." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories UN members avoid Trump talk as they work to turn Paris Agreement into action Growing fears that a Trump presidency would scrap Paris climate deal The world is getting hotter and an 'increasingly visible human footprint' is to blame: UN Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca