http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/great-barrier-reef-1.3421919
The Great Barrier Reef: 5 fascinating things about it | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news The Great Barrier Reef: 5 fascinating things about it Social Sharing Technology & Science The Great Barrier Reef: 5 fascinating things about it The corals of the Great Barrier Reef have sex only once a year - and only when there is a full moon. Here are 5 facts that will change your perspective on the largest living structure in the world. Social Sharing David Attenborough's new 3-part series debuts on CBC-TV Jan. 28 at 9/9:30NT Annette Bradford · CBC News · Posted: Jan 28, 2016 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: January 28, 2016 David Attenborough, best known for hosting BBC's Life series of natural history programmes, returns to the Great Barrier Reef off the coast of Australia that he first visited 60 years ago in a new 3-part series on CBC-TV (BBC) comments David Attenborough first visited Australia's Great Barrier reef over 60 years ago. "The first time I put on a mask and went below the surface and moved in three dimensions just with the flick of my fin and suddenly saw these amazing multi-coloured things of unforgettable beauty," remembers Attenborough,who claims it was the most magical moment of his life as a naturalist. Attenborough, best known for hosting BBC's Life series of natural history programmes, recently returned to the reef to reveal new secrets of this hidden world in a new three-part series that debuts on CBC-TV tonight. This time, David Attenborough returns to the reef in a Triton submersible. (BBC) This time, he explored the reef with the help of the Alucia, a 56-metre state-of-the-art research and exploration vessel equipped with a Triton submersible. "Sinking beneath the waves is a very surreal experience — your first instinct is to hold your breath." Watch as David's sub disappears beneath the waves. 0:35 Here's a glimpse at few of the interesting facts about the Great Barrier Reef he uncovers: The Great Barrier Reef is an underwater city built by jellyfish-like animals. The largest living structure on earth, the Great Barrier Reef is actually built by tiny creatures called coral polyps. They extend their tentacles out of their limestone homes at night to feed on clouds of tiny microorganisms called zooplankton drifting in the sea. They extract calcium carbonate from the surrounding seawater and use it to build their homes. It's an underwater city on a scale that's impossible to comprehend. Like rainforests, coral reefs are home to the most diverse communities of animals on the planet. Life on the reef evolves 50 per cent faster than in other marine environments. Minke whales were known as "the silent whale" until their elusive calls — playfully dubbed "the Star Wars sound" — were finally recorded. 0:47 It's also like a truck stop for migrants. Each year, the Great Barrier Reef attracts over a million migrating animals who visit to refuel and re-calibrate. Everything from tiger sharks to turtles use the earth's magnetic field to navigate back to the same place. Manta rays travel hundreds of kilometres from up the coast to gather at Lady Elliot Island for a little pampering. Wrasse, a small fish with a strip running from head to tail, perform a vital service by removing the dead skin and parasites from outside and inside the manta ray's bodies. Dwarf minke whales, small mammals that are believed to live a solitary life in the ocean depths, visit for an annual reunion to socialize and find new mates. They sing a special song that scientists have discovered is related to courtship. The exquisite event of coral spawning explained. 1:16 A coral reef may look quiet and peaceful, but it's surprisingly noisy. Like birds, fish vocalize the most at dawn and dusk. Healthy reefs are surprisingly noisy places as seahorses click to find mates and damsel fish croak to defend their territory, all over the constant sound of parrot fish munching on hard coral. Underwater, the fish hear the sound as vibration. Damselfish croak to defend their territory, adding to the din of the reef, which isn't as quiet and peaceful as it looks. (Oona Lönnstedt) The more clicks, grunts and snaps, the more varied and numerous the reefs inhabitants are — a key sign that the community is in good shape. Researchers are now studying whether sound is what attracts new fish to set up a home there. Hear what the reef sounds like The corals have sex once a year under a full moon. Discovered in the 1980s, the corals' annual spawning is the one time of year when corals reproduce sexually. Vital to the survival of the reef, this big event happens within days of the full moon in either October or November. Scientists speculate that it could be triggered by the light of the moon, the temperature of the water or the state of the tides. It's an incredible sight as fish and other predators gather to feast on small bundles of sperm and eggs that bulge from the coral polyps. By daybreak, great ribbons of coral spawn have drifted over the surface of the sea for hundreds of kilometres along the coast signalling a new phase of reef-building. The Great Barrier Reef has grown back many times after being drowned or exposed. Through computer modelling and deep sea surveying, scientists have learned that the reef running along Australia's eastern coast has been exposed and flooded no less than four times already. Most recently, the Great Barrier Reef re-generated only 10,000 years ago at the end of the last ice age. The rate of change was so fast that coastlines moved back by hundreds of metres a year, a fact verified through the folk tales of the Gimuy Walubarra Yidinji, an aboriginal tribe that has made its home next to the reef for thousands of years. Folk tales of the Gimuy Walubarra Yidinji, an aboriginal tribe that have made their home next to the reef for thousands of years, confirm that coastlines moved back by hundreds of metres at the end of the last ice age. (CBC) But present day threats from climate change may be happening even faster. We've lost 50 per cent of the Great Barrier Reef since the 1980s and David Attenborough fears that it may disappear under our watch. Watch David Attenborough's Great Barrier Reef, Thursday January 28th on CBC-TV at 9 p.m. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories David Attenborough’s Great Barrier Reef on CBC-TV Great Barrier Reef outlook poor but not 'in danger' UNESCO says Coral breeding may help cooler reefs survive warming, study finds El Nino is bleaching Christmas Island corals, says UVic scientist Re-planting a Coral Reef Damselfish in Distress Call Their Enemies External Links Great Barrier Reef Attenborough's Reef: What the reef sounds like Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca