https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/monarch-butterfly-decline-linked-to-spread-of-gm-crops-1.2665131
Monarch butterfly decline linked to spread of GM crops | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Monarch butterfly decline linked to spread of GM crops Social Sharing Technology & Science Monarch butterfly decline linked to spread of GM crops The spread of genetically modified crops is, indirectly, the biggest cause of the monarch butterfly's decline, a new study suggests. Social Sharing Milkweed essential to monarchs in decline because of herbicides used with genetically modified crops Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Jun 04, 2014 7:00 PM ET | Last Updated: June 5, 2014 Tyler Flockhart, currently a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Guelph, led the analysis, which combined all the known data about monarch populations and the factors that influence them. (Courtesy Tyler Flockhart) comments The main cause of the monarch butterfly's decline is the loss of milkweed — its food — in its U.S. breeding grounds, a new study has found. That all but confirms that the spread of genetically modified crops is indirectly killing the monarch. This past winter, the number of monarch butterflies wintering in Mexico fell to its lowest since 1993, when records first started being kept, the World Wildlife Fund and Mexico's Environment Department reported in January. That report blamed the loss of milkweed owing to genetically modified crops and urban sprawl in the U.S. and illegal logging in the butterflies' Mexican wintering ground. Monarch migration said to be in trouble as numbers fall Now, an analysis combining all the known data about monarch populations and the factors that influence them shows that the monarch's biggest threat is in the U.S., not Mexico. The leaves of the milkweed plant are the only place that monarchs lay their eggs and the only food that monarch butterfly caterpillars will eat. A large proportion of monarchs east of the Rocky Mountains breed in the U.S. corn belt, stretching from Kansas in the west to Ohio in the east, and south to north from Missouri to North Dakota. 20% decline in milkweed The new study led by Tyler Flockhart, currently a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Guelph, showed that the number of milkweed plants in the U.S. corn belt, where most monarchs breed, has fallen 20 per cent over the past few decades. "It's a massive number of milkweeds — about 1.5 billion milkweed plants," he said. This past winter, monarch butterfly numbers at the wintering grounds in Mexico fell to their lowest levels since records started being kept in 1993. (Associated Press) The study, published today in the Journal of Animal Ecology, shows this decline in milkweed is the main cause of the monarch's recent population decline, not deforestation in Mexico. If this milkweed loss continues, the study predicts, monarch populations will fall at least another 14 per cent and there is a five per cent chance they will be driven nearly to extinction over the next century . Study co-author Ryan Norris, a biology professor at the University of Guelph, said that "likely the biggest cause of loss of milkweed is the adoption of genetically modified crops." Farmers have been increasingly planting corn and soybeans resistant to herbicides, and then applying those herbicides liberally on their fields. That kills off plants between the rows of crops that aren't resistant, such as milkweed. That's been a big problem for the butterflies. Even now, 67 per cent of milkweed plants in the butterflies' breeding grounds are found in "agriculture-intensive landscapes," the study reported. Monarch butterfly numbers drop to new lows There have also been some other causes of milkweed loss, Norris said. Because milkweed is poisonous to humans and to grazing animals, it's considered a noxious weed in many jurisdictions and is removed as such. Some open areas where milkweed has previously grown have also been reforested in recent decades, wiping out the milkweed. Flockhart added that urbanization has also played a role. Milkweed is also being lost in other parts of the monarch butterfly's range, such as southern Ontario. But Flockhart said that has less of an effect because so few monarch butterflies breed there, and most of those that do come from farther south. The findings suggest that the "top conservation priority to slow or halt future population declines of monarch butterflies in North America," has to be addressing the milkweed loss in its breeding grounds, the paper said. "One of the main focus areas has to be planting milkweed in the U.S. Midwest," Norris said. How monarch butterflies find their way to Mexico Thus far, he added, most monarch conservation efforts have focused on protecting the butterflies' wintering site in Mexico, where millions of monarchs from all over North America converge each year. But recently, that hasn't stopped monarch populations from declining. "Here's the lesson for any species that crosses international boundaries or any species that moves long distances over the course of its annual cycle," he said. "You can't focus on one part of the annual cycle." Roadside planting recommended Flockhart said the study shows that a huge quantity of milkweed would need to be replanted in order for monarch butterfly populations to recover. He suggests taking advantage of roadsides for this purpose, and mowing the milkweed at strategic times to maximize their use by monarch butterflies, which prefer younger plants. Flockhart also wants the plant delisted as a noxious weed in areas where monarchs breed. In Ontario, milkweed was delisted on May 9. The study represented several years of work over the course of Flockhart's PhD studies at the University of Guelph. Flockhart designed the study and brought together all the data he could find about monarch butterflies, including information about their range and survival rates at various points in their life cycle. The researchers also tracked monarchs using chemical markers to learn more about their movements. The data was compiled into a computer model built by Jean-Baptiste Pichancourt at the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization in Brisbane, Australia, in collaboration with University of Queensland researcher Tara Martin. That allowed the researchers to see what would happen to monarch populations when they manipulated different variables. It was funded by NSERC, the Canadian Wildlife Federation, the University of Guelph and CSIRO. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Monarch migration said to be in trouble as numbers fall Monarch butterfly numbers drop to new lows Point Pelee National Park cancels monarch butterfly count How monarch butterflies find their way to Mexico Monarch butterflies threatened by Mexican logging External Links University of Guelph news release Journal of Animal Ecology Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca