http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/life-forms-discovered-in-buried-antarctic-lake-1.1359606
Life forms discovered in buried Antarctic lake | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Life forms discovered in buried Antarctic lake Social Sharing Technology & Science Life forms discovered in buried Antarctic lake Several life forms have been discovered living and reproducing in a lake buried under 3.5 kilometres of ice in Antarctica, a U.S. scientist says. Social Sharing Marine and freshwater species found, Ohio scientist says CBC News · Posted: Jul 05, 2013 4:13 PM ET | Last Updated: July 5, 2013 Thousands of species were identified from ice samples through DNA and RNA sequencing. (Bowling Green State University) Several life forms have been discovered living and reproducing in a lake buried under 3.5 kilometres of ice in Antarctica, scientists say. "We found much more complexity than anyone thought," said Scott Rogers, a professor of biological sciences at Bowling Green State University in Ohio, whose team led the investigations in Lake Vostok. "It really shows the tenacity of life, and how organisms can survive in places where a couple dozen years ago we thought nothing could survive." In research published June 26 in the Public Library of Science journal, Rogers said the presence of marine and freshwater species supports the hypothesis that the lake once was connected to the ocean, and that freshwater was deposited in the lake by the overriding glacier. By sequencing the DNA and RNA from ice samples, the team identified thousands of bacteria, including some that are commonly found in the digestive systems of fish, crustaceans and annelid worms, in addition to fungi and two species of archaea, or single-celled organisms that tend to live in extreme environments. They also discovered psychrophiles, or organisms that live in extreme cold, along with heat-loving thermophiles, which Rogers said suggests the presence of hydrothermal vents deep in the lake. Lake Vostok is the fourth-deepest lake on Earth and the largest of about 400 subglacial lakes known in Antarctica. The ice that has covered it for the past 15 million years is now more than three kilometres deep, creating tremendous pressure in the lake. Few nutrients are available. Connection to Southern ocean The lake lies far below sea level in a depression that formed 60 million years ago, when the continental plates shifted and cracked. The weather there is so harsh and unpredictable that scientists visiting must have special gear and take survival training. It's been widely believed that the lake is completely inhospitable to life. More than 35 million years ago, Antarctica had a temperate climate and was inhabited by diverse plants and animals. About 34 million years ago, a huge drop in temperature occurred and ice covered the lake, when it was probably still connected to the southern Atlantic Ocean, Rogers added. This lowered the sea level by about 90 metres, which could have cut off Lake Vostok from the ocean. The ice cover was intermittent until a second big plunge in temperature took place 14 million years ago, and the sea level dropped even farther. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Doubt cast on bacterial 'find' in buried Antarctic lake Touching the oldest water on Earth Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca