https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/february-shuttle-launch-still-on-despite-hose-leaks-1.969277
February shuttle launch still on despite hose leaks | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news February shuttle launch still on despite hose leaks Social Sharing Technology & Science February shuttle launch still on despite hose leaks NASA is maintaining its schedule for the next shuttle mission next month, despite leaks found in newly installed coolant hoses. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jan 12, 2010 10:02 AM ET | Last Updated: January 12, 2010 NASA is maintaining its schedule for the next shuttle mission next month, despite leaks found in newly installed coolant hoses. The space shuttle Endeavour is slated to launch Feb. 7, carrying the Tranquility module to the International Space Station. Tranquility, also called Node 3, will provide life-support systems and living quarters to the station, topped with a seven-window hexagonal dome, called Cupola, that will be used to observe dockings and Canadarm2 operations. During a prelaunch test conducted last week, high-pressure hoses that will carry ammonia coolant to Tranquility ruptured after the metal braiding on the hoses separated. NASA manager Pete Hasbrook said a California contractor is reinforcing the four-metre hoses, which are longer than normal because of a change in location for Tranquility on the ISS. Hasbrook said NASA recently decided to change the docking location of Tranquility at the last minute to give the station more flexibility in docking locations. The windowed dome was originally intended to point toward Earth. It will now be installed on the Unity module's port side. Decision pending NASA said an analysis of the hose rupture will take several days and its results will determine if there will be any impact on the mission. Hasbrook said that if a solution to the hose problem isn't found, Tranquility may still go up in February, but hose improvements will have to wait until the next shuttle mission in March. That would mean that equipment that needs to be cooled, such as life-support systems and the C.O.L.B.E.R.T. treadmill, won't be installed in Tranquility until March. The shuttles' contribution to the construction of the space station is scheduled to conclude in September with Discovery's launch carrying the Leonardo multipurpose module. Further station modules, such as the European robotic arm and the Nauka laboratory, will be carried by Russian rockets. Only five more shuttle launches are scheduled. After that, the fleet is slated to be retired. With files from The Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Space shuttle missions from NASA Space shuttle missions from NASA Space shuttle missions from NASA Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca