https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/tyrannosaur-teeth-were-serrated-like-steak-knives-1.3172520
Tyrannosaur teeth were serrated like steak knives | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Tyrannosaur teeth were serrated like steak knives Social Sharing Technology & Science Tyrannosaur teeth were serrated like steak knives If you want to know the secret behind the success of Tyrannosaurus rex and its meat-eating dinosaur cousins, look no further than their teeth, Canadian research suggests. Social Sharing U of T study shows tyrannosaur teeth had deep serrations that made teeth resistant to breaking Thomson Reuters · Posted: Jul 29, 2015 1:06 PM ET | Last Updated: July 29, 2015 This is a detail of a thin section through the tooth of a large theropod, Gorgosaurus, from Alberta. The teeth were serrated like steak knives for easy dismembering of other dinosaurs. (Drawing by Danielle Dufault) comments If you want to know the secret behind the success of Tyrannosaurus rex and its meat-eating dinosaur cousins, look no further than their teeth. Scientists on Tuesday unveiled a comprehensive analysis of the teeth of the group of carnivorous dinosaurs called theropods, detailing a unique serrated structure that let them chomp efficiently through the flesh and bones of large prey. New dinosaur finds soar in 'golden age' of discovery Ancient predators grew 'steak-knife' teeth Theropods included the largest land predators in Earth's history. They first appeared about 200 million years ago and were the dominant terrestrial meat-eaters until the age of dinosaurs ended about 65 million years ago. The study involving eight theropod species revealed their previously unknown tooth complexity. Internal dental tissues were arranged in a way that reinforced the strength and prolonged the life of teeth that were serrated like steak knives for easy dismembering of other dinosaurs. Gorgosaurus used its specialized teeth to tear the flesh of a young Corythosaurus in Alberta, 75 million years ago. (Danielle Dufault) Bone crushing University of Toronto Mississauga paleontologist Kirstin Brink said fossil evidence showed that T. rex's teeth could crush bone. Its teeth have been found embedded in the bones of its prey and chunks of bone appear in its fossilized dung. "But the serrations were most efficient for piercing flesh and gripping it while ripping off a chunk of meat, called the 'puncture and pull' feeding style," Brink said. The researchers analyzed slices from fossil teeth using a powerful microscope and a sophisticated device that revealed tooth chemical properties. They studied teeth from: the early and relatively small Coelophysis; bird-like Troodon; large predators Allosaurus, Gorgosaurus, Daspletosaurus, Tyrannosaurus and Carcharodontosaurus; and big, semi-aquatic Spinosaurus. Tyrannosaurs prowled in packs, B.C. tracks show Daspletosaurus tyrannosaurs fought, ate each other Spinosaurus is the first semi-aquatic dinosaur ever discovered The teeth of Tyrannosaurus and Carcharodontosaurus measured up to 23 cm (9 inches) long. "In theropods, the serrations are larger and deeper than the superficial view suggests, making them stronger and longer lasting, less likely to get damaged or worn," University of Toronto Mississauga paleontology professor Robert Reisz said. University of Toronto Mississauga researcher Kirstin Brink displays the tooth and thin section of the large theropod Carcharodontosaurus. 'The serrations were most efficient for piercing flesh and gripping it while ripping off a chunk of meat, called the "puncture and pull" feeding style,' she said. (Courtesy Kirstin Brink) Dinosaurs were able to continuously grow teeth throughout their lives. When a tooth was broken, another could replace it. "It could take up to two years for a tooth to grow back in the big theropods like T. rex. Therefore, having specially reinforced teeth means less tooth breakage and less gaps in the jaw, leading to more efficient eating," Brink said. The Komodo dragon, a lizard up to 3 metres(10 feet) long from Indonesia, is the only living reptile with serrated teeth closely resembling those of theropods although these teeth evolved independently of those of the dinosaurs, Brink said. Komodo dragons kill man in Indonesia The research appears in the journal Scientific Reports. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Ancient predators grew 'steak-knife' teeth Spinosaurus is the first semiaquatic dinosaur ever discovered Daspletosaurus tyrannosaurs fought, ate each other: researcher Tyrannosaurs prowled in packs, B.C. tracks show Spinosaurus is the first semiaquatic dinosaur ever discovered Pinocchio rex long-snouted tyrannosaur discovered in Asia New dinosaur, cousin of T. Rex, discovered in Arctic T. rex tooth found lodged in escaped prey Huge, feathered tyrannosaur surprises researchers External Links Full paper in Scientific Reports University of Toronto Mississauga news release Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca