https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/september-2014-was-the-hottest-on-record-1.2806174
September 2014 was the hottest on record | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news September 2014 was the hottest on record Social Sharing Technology & Science September 2014 was the hottest on record U.S. meteorologists say 2014 is on track to break the record for the hottest year on record after a monthly temperature record was broken for the fourth time in five months. Social Sharing Record temperature follows broken records this past May, June and August The Associated Press · Posted: Oct 20, 2014 3:29 PM ET | Last Updated: October 21, 2014 comments A map shows how land and ocean temperatures around the globe this past September compared to the average for that month. (NOAA) Last month again set a new mark for global heat. And U.S. meteorologists say Earth is now on pace to tie the hottest year ever recorded, or more likely, to break it. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration announced Monday that last month the globe averaged 15.7 degrees Celsius. That was the hottest September in 135 years of record keeping. This is one of many indicators that climate change not stopped. - Donald Wuebbles, University of Illinois It was the fourth monthly record set this year, along with May, June and August. NASA, which measures temperatures slightly differently, had already determined that September was record-warm. The first nine months of 2014 have a global average temperature of 14.7 degrees Celsius, tying with 1998 for the warmest first nine months on record, according to NOAA's National Climatic Data Center. "It's pretty likely" that 2014 will break the record for hottest year, said NOAA climate scientist Jessica Blunden. The reason involves El Nino, a warming of the tropical Pacific Ocean that affects weather worldwide. In 1998, the year started off super-hot because of an El Nino. But then that El Nino disappeared and temperatures moderated slightly toward the end of the year. This year has no El Nino yet, but forecasts for the rest of the year show a strong chance that one will show up, and that weather will be warmer than normal, Blunden said. El Nino forecast suggests next winter will be warm If 2014 breaks the record for hottest year, that also should sound familiar: 1995, 1997, 1998, 2005 and 2010 all broke NOAA records for the hottest years since records started being kept in 1880. "This is one of many indicators that climate change not stopped and that it continues to be one of the most important issues facing humanity," said University of Illinois climate scientist Donald Wuebbles. Some non-scientists who are skeptical of man-made climate change have been claiming that the world has not warmed in 18 years, but "no one's told the globe that," Blunden said. She said NOAA records show no pause in warming. No monthly record for cold since 1916 The record-breaking heat goes back to the end of last year — November 2013 broke a record. So the 12 months from October 2013 to September 2014 are the hottest 12-month period on record, Blunden said. Earth hasn't set a monthly record for cold since December 1916, but all monthly heat records have been set after 1997. September's monthly record follows new records for May, June and August. (iStock) September also marks the third month in a row that Earth's oceans broke monthly heat records, but these are all-time records for how much hotter than normal they were, Blunden said. The U.S. as a whole was warmer than normal for September, but the month was only the 25th warmest on record. While parts of the U.S. Midwest, Russia and central Africa were slightly cool in September, it was especially hotter than normal in the U.S. West, Australia, Europe, northwestern Africa, central South America and parts of Asia. California and Nevada set records for the hottest September. If Earth sets a record for heat in 2014 it probably won't last, said Jeff Masters, meteorology director for the private firm Weather Underground. If there is an El Nino, Masters said, "next year could well bring Earth's hottest year on record, accompanied by unprecedented regional heat waves and droughts." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Global heat record set in August 2014 Changing rainfall common problem for entire globe, says UN-sponsored book Global CO2 emissions break record ahead of UN Climate Summit Summer heat in October as Ottawa sets temperature record Global warming linked to several extreme weather events External Links NOAA news release Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca