http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/worst-extinction-ever-linked-to-massive-co2-spill-1.1010028
Worst extinction ever linked to massive CO2 spill | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Worst extinction ever linked to massive CO2 spill Social Sharing Technology & Science Worst extinction ever linked to massive CO2 spill Scientists finally know the date — and hence the likely cause — of the most massive extinction ever, which wiped out 95 per cent of life in the oceans and 70 per cent of life on land more than 200 million years ago. Social Sharing Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Nov 17, 2011 8:44 PM ET | Last Updated: November 18, 2011 Sculptures of conodont teeth site top the two sides of the entrance of Meishan Geopark in China. The gates also contain models of other species that died out during the end-Permian mass extinction. (Courtesy of Image courtesy of Shuzhong Shen) Scientists finally know the date — and hence the likely cause — of a massive extinction that wiped out 95 per cent of life in the oceans and 70 per cent of life on land more than 200 million years ago. The end-Permian mass extinction — the most severe mass extinction ever — peaked 252.28 million years ago, reports a new study published Thursday in Science. Most affected species met their demise within 20,000 years — a blink of an eye on the geological timescale. In all, the mass extinction lasted less than 200,000 years, wiping out huge forests of conifer trees, tree ferns, big amphibians, large reptiles such as dimetrodons, mammal ancestors called synapsids and a huge diversity of fish and shellfish. Charles Henderson (middle) of the University of Calgary collects material from a sedimentary layer in Shangsi, Sichuan Province, China. (Courtesy of Charles Henderson/Univeresity of Calgary) The precise timing coincides with a huge outpouring of carbon dioxide and methane from volcanic lava flows in northwest Asia known as the Siberian traps. "That led to cascading effect — global warming, aridity in various areas, giant wildfires, acidification of the ocean," said Charles Henderson, a geosciences professor at the University of Calgary who co-authored the paper with a large international team. "All of these things led to a very inhospitable world." The study also showed that marine and land animals went extinct at the same time, ending a long-held scientific debate. Researchers are interested in the causes of previous mass extinctions because they hope it will help them understand the rapid loss of biodiversity that is taking place in the present day, Henderson said. Previously, scientists had a very rough idea of when the end-Permian extinction took place, based on the fossil record, which provides a relative age record. "All you can say is this fossil is older or younger than another fossil," Henderson said, "but you don't exactly know how much." While that may show species going extinct, "you don't know how fast it happened, and you don’t know exactly when." That meant it was impossible to tell whether the extinction happened before or after major geological events around the same time such as the massive release of gases from the Siberian traps: "You need something that gives you absolute time as opposed to relative time." In the new study, led by Shu-zhong Shen at the Nanjing Institute of Geology and Paleontology in China, the absolute timing was determined from chemical techniques that rely on the rate of radioactive decay of uranium in zircon. The techniques have only recently become precise and standardized enough to use in this type of study, Henderson said. Lucky eruption The zircon crystals were found in ash beds interspersed between fossils in South China and Tibet. The localized ash was deposited by nearby volcanoes similar to Mt. St. Helen's in the northwestern U.S. around the time of the extinction — a lucky coincidence that didn't happen at most other fossil beds around the world of a similar age. The researchers were able to figure out the absolute timing by analyzing zircon crystals in ash beds, such as this thin white layer, interspersed between fossils in South China and Tibet. (Courtesy of Shuzhong Shen) The researchers were able to pinpoint the timing of the extinction by combining the time information from the ash with painstaking counts of 1500 fossil species in the rock layers by a huge number of Chinese researchers. "We actually can show the species actually going extinct," said Henderson. "It's an immense amount of work." Henderson played a key role in that part of the study because he specializes in identifying conodonts, a once common but now extinct group of eel-like marine animals related to fish. By identifying conodont features that evolved earlier or later, researchers can figure out the relative age of a given fossil layer. Now that the scientists have pinpointed the timing and progression of the extinction, it will be possible to do more detailed studies that weren't possible before, Henderson said. For example, scientists can look more closely at how fast species were evolving leading up to the extinction and compare them to other changes in the ecosystem. Or they can do computer modeling to try and figure out how the extinction may have progressed in more detail. "It opens up the door." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Quirks & Quarks: Download an interview with Charles Henderson or hear the rest of the show Mass extinctions coincide with hotter temperatures: study Range of habitat less important during mass extinctions: study External Links Abstract in Science Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca