https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/arctic-ice-could-vanish-in-10-years-scientists-warn-1.1131487
Arctic ice could vanish in 10 years, scientists warn | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Arctic ice could vanish in 10 years, scientists warn Social Sharing Technology & Science Arctic ice could vanish in 10 years, scientists warn Arctic sea ice is melting at a pace so much faster than once thought that the latest projections say it might disappear by as soon as 2022, according to measurements from the European Space Agency. Social Sharing Data shows ice melting 50% faster than predicted by some polar scientists CBC News · Posted: Aug 13, 2012 3:55 PM ET | Last Updated: August 13, 2012 An analysis from the CryoSat-2 satellite indicates that 900 cubic kilometres of Arctic ice has disappeared each year since 2004. At such a rate, scientists warn the Arctic could be ice-free in 10 years. Arctic sea ice is melting at a pace so much faster than once thought that the latest projections say it might disappear by as soon as 2022, according to measurements from the European Space Agency. An analysis from the CryoSat-2 probe, launched two years ago as a purpose-built satellite for studying the thickness of Arctic ice, suggests that 900 cubic kilometres of ice have disappeared every year since 2004. At such a dramatic rate, scientists say it's possible in 10 years that the Arctic could be ice-free for at least a day. "Very soon we may experience the iconic moment when, one day in the summer, we look at satellite images and see no sea ice coverage in the Arctic, just open water," Dr. Seymour Laxon, with London's Centre for Polar Observation and Modelling, told The Guardian newspaper. The data would mean that the thinning of Arctic ice is progressing 50 per cent faster than many polar scientists had previously predicted, suggesting that global warming and rising greenhouse gases could be contributing factors. The satellite estimates were cross-referenced with data obtained from NASA planes flying over the Arctic and submarines making measurements via sonar from beneath the ice. White ice caps reflect sunlight Laxon told BBC News the results should be accurate to within 10 centimetres. About 7,000 cubic kilometres of ice remained at the end of last summer. By contrast, there was 13,000 cubic km of sea ice in the Arctic in 2004. The loss of the Arctic's white ice caps even for a short period could have a profound rippling effect on ocean temperatures. The polar ice caps themselves have a surface that is so bright that 80 per cent of the sunlight it receives is reflected back into space, instead of being absorbed by the Earth. The absence of the ice caps would likely lead to rising ocean temperatures and release more of the greenhouse gas methane into the atmosphere, further accelerating global warming and rising sea levels. Laxon said that although the figures are dramatic, they are still based on preliminary studies and that the current rate of ice decline might slow down. Scientists also noted that the melting of sea ice cannot always be attributed to man-made climate change. For example, NASA last month pointed out a "freak event" in which nearly all of Greenland's massive ice sheet suddenly began melting. NASA stressed that the massive melt occurs roughly once every 150 years, and that records showed the last time it happened was in 1889. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Greenland's massive ice sheet melting Arctic ice near all-time low, 2nd study confirms Arctic sea ice loss unprecedented in 1,450 years Rapid melting of Arctic sea ice possibly explained Arctic Ocean may open to regular shipping by 2017 Antarctic ice melting from below due to warming ocean Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca