https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/mountain-gorilla-1.4904680
After facing near extinction, mountain gorilla population grows | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news After facing near extinction, mountain gorilla population grows Social Sharing Technology & Science After facing near extinction, mountain gorilla population grows The Switzerland-based International Union for Conservation of Nature has updated mountain gorillas' status from "critically endangered" to "endangered," a more promising, if still precarious, designation. Social Sharing New findings a 'beacon of hope,' though only 1,000 left in the wild The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 14, 2018 1:04 PM ET | Last Updated: November 14, 2018 This 2014 photo provided by the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund shows mountain gorillas in Rwanda's Volcanoes National Park. On Wednesday, the International Union for Conservation of Nature updated the species status from critically endangered to endangered. (Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund via Associated Press) comments There are more gorillas in the mist — a rare conservation success story, scientists say. After facing near-extinction, mountain gorillas are slowly rebounding. On Wednesday, the Switzerland-based International Union for Conservation of Nature updated mountain gorillas' status from "critically endangered" to "endangered," a more promising, if still precarious, designation. There are now just over 1,000 of the animals in the wild. "In the context of crashing populations of wildlife around the world, this is a remarkable conservation success," said Tara Stoinski, president and chief scientist of the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund. Fossey, shown in Washington, on Sept. 24, 1970, 15 years before her death, had projected that gorillas may be extinct by 2000, but their populations have been increasing thanks to conservation efforts. (Associated Press) The Atlanta-based non-profit is named for the primate researcher whose work helped draw international attention to mountain gorillas and whose memoir became the basis for the 1988 Sigourney Weaver film Gorillas in the Mist. "This is a beacon of hope — and it's happened in recently war-torn and still very poor countries," said Stoinski, also a member of the IUCN's primate specialist group, which recommended the status change. Making progress Mountain gorillas live in lush and misty forests along a range of dormant volcanoes in east Africa. Their habitat falls inside national parks spanning parts of Rwanda, Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Fossey, who died in 1985, had projected that the primates may be extinct by 2000. Instead, their populations have been slowly increasing thanks to sustained and well-funded international conservation efforts. A baby mountain gorilla rides on its mother's back on the slopes of Mount Mikeno in the Virunga National Park, eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. (Peter Andrews/Reuters) "We have made progress in terms of their protection, in terms of allowing an environment where mountain gorillas can continue to thrive and grow," said Anna Behm Masozera, director of the International Gorilla Conservation Program, based in Kigali, Rwanda. "But it's important to note that mountain gorillas' numbers could still slip back very quickly. We still have just two fragile and small populations," split between two national park areas. Several factors have enabled mountain gorillas' modest rebound, said Masozera. Meet Charlie: the Toronto Zoo's newborn female gorilla Video 'The end of an era': Koko, the gorilla who learned sign language, dies at 46 The three governments have stepped up enforcement of national park boundaries — areas where hunting, logging and paved roads are illegal. Tourism helps too: Visitors pay up to $1,500 an hour to watch gorillas, money that helps pay for park rangers. "Primate ecotourism, done right, can be a really significant force for funding conservation," said Russ Mittermeier, chief conservation officer at Global Wildlife Conservation. "It gives local governments and communities a tangible economic incentive to protect these habitats and species." There's also health care. Gorilla Doctors, a nongovernmental group, has trained veterinary staff in each of the countries where the mountain gorillas live. Hunting in the national parks is illegal, but nearby residents still set traps to catch other animals, such as antelopes. Those traps can also grab gorillas' arms and legs. When gorillas are found struggling with snares, the vets are called in to clean wounds. Kirsten Gilardi, U.S. director for the organization, called it "extreme conservation." Other experts said the emergency vet interventions play a significant role in maintaining mountain gorilla populations. "It's a total conservation win, and there aren't that many of them," said Gilardi. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Video New orangutan species found in Indonesia Extinction of world's biggest mammals tied to spread of humans Borneo's orangutans at risk of extinction after population decreases by 148,500 in 16 years Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca