http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/story/2012/04/20/science-emperor-penguins-satellite-population.html
Emperor penguins counted from space | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Emperor penguins counted from space Social Sharing Technology & Science Emperor penguins counted from space Satellite imagery has been used to estimate the population of an animal species for the first time, in a survey that discovered surprising new information about the emperor penguin population of Antarctica. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Apr 20, 2012 2:39 PM ET | Last Updated: April 20, 2012 Some scientists predict the population of emperor penguins will fall by roughly half in the coming decades, says scientist Peter Fretwell. (British Antarctic Survey) Satellite imagery has been used to estimate the population of an animal species for the first time, in a survey that discovered surprising new information about the emperor penguin population of Antarctica. By counting penguins in images taken from space, scientists estimate the population of emperor penguins was around 595,000 in 2009 — roughly double previous estimates of between 270,000 and 350,000, reports a study led by the British Antarctic Survey. COMING UP Peter Fretwell talks to Quirks & Quarks on Saturday, April 21, at noon on CBC Radio One That is valuable baseline information that will help scientists track how the birds are affected by climate change, Peter Fretwell, a geographic information scientist with the British Antarctic Survey, said in an interview with Quirks & Quarks that airs Saturday. Emperor penguins, which stand as tall as a six-year-old child, breed and spend much of their lives on sea ice that is expected to melt significantly in coming decades. "But it's very hard to predict how this will affect emperor penguin numbers if you don't have an idea of how many there are in the first place," Fretwell said. Previously, it had been very difficult to get an accurate count of emperor penguins because the birds breed in such harsh, remote areas during the Antarctic winter, and it's hard for scientists to get there, Fretwell said. The recent satellite count located four previously unknown colonies, and two or three others that had been thought to exist, but had never been located. The results show that colonies exist all the way around the Antarctic coastline, not just in certain areas where researchers had found previously known colonies. Even though there are more penguins than previously believed, Fretwell thinks there is still reason to worry about them. Some scientists predict the population of emperor penguins will be halved in coming decades because of their reliance on the shrinking sea ice. Therefore, the fact that there are more to begin with "means we will actually lose more penguins," Fretwell said. "But we will at least be left with a larger number at the end." Sea ice extent is currently shrinking in some areas of Antarctica and growing in others. Climate models predict that overall, Antarctic sea ice will decrease 24 per cent in total extent by 2100, according to the Australian Antarctic Division. Fretwell said the use of satellites to count penguins has only become possible in the past few years because of recent improvements in the resolution of satellite imagery, which can now distinguish objects on the ground just 50 centimetres apart. Penguin colonies were identified in the images by the large brown stains of their feces on the white sea ice. The researchers zoomed in and were able to see black dots representing individual penguins or clusters of penguins, which were used to estimate the population. The results were published earlier in April in the journal PLoS ONE. Fretwell suggests the technique might soon be used to count other types of animals in a variety of ecosystems. In satellite images, penguins were visible as black dots on the white sea ice. (DigitalGlobe) CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories COMING UP: Peter Fretwell talks to Quirks & Quarks April 21 at noon on CBC Radio One External Links Paper in PLoS ONE Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca