http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/boreal-forest-being-driven-to-tipping-point-by-climate-change-study-finds-1.3198892
Boreal forest being driven to tipping point by climate change, study finds | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Boreal forest being driven to tipping point by climate change, study finds Social Sharing Technology & Science Boreal forest being driven to tipping point by climate change, study finds Climate change is forcing the boreal forest that covers much of northern Canada to a tipping point, concludes a newly published study. Social Sharing 'The changes could be very dramatic and very fast,' says one author of the study Bob Weber · The Canadian Press · Posted: Aug 21, 2015 8:06 AM ET | Last Updated: August 21, 2015 A extensive review of studies published in the journal Science found that the boreal forest can't migrate north fast enough to outpace the impacts of a changing climate. (Matt Medler/Associated Press) comments Climate change is forcing the boreal forest that covers much of northern Canada to a tipping point, concludes a newly published study. "The changes could be very dramatic and very fast," said Dmitry Schepaschenko of Austria's Institute for Applied Systems Analysis. Schepaschenko was one of three authors who collaborated on a detailed review of current research on the boreal forest. Their conclusions were released Thursday in a special edition of the journal Science. Boreal forest suffering 'significant' losses in Russia, Canada Boreal forests ignored in climate change fight Save half of boreal forest from development, scientists urge 'Bird nursery' at risk unless half of Canada's boreal forest preserved One of the authors is from Natural Resources Canada, but was unable to speak on the record because of restrictions placed on public servants during the federal election. The boreal forest is one of the largest ecological zones on the planet. It covers much of northern Canada and extends into Scandinavia and northern Russia. Although it remains largely intact, it faces the most severe expected temperature increases anywhere on Earth. Schepaschenko said some parts of Siberia are likely to eventually become 11 C warmer. That will bring greater precipitation, but not enough to compensate for the dryness caused by hotter weather. A drier boreal will suffer new diseases, insect infestations and vast wildfires. Boreal could become savannah Nor will the forest simply be able to shift north as warmer temperatures creep up from the south, said Schepaschenko. "The forests can't go so far to the north. The speed at which forests can move forward is very slow, like 100 metres a decade." The result, the study concludes, is that the forest is likely to transform from an unbroken canopy of green to a mixed landscape with groves of trees separated by open grasslands. "This forest will convert to a type of savannah." The consequences of the shift will be sweeping and affect everything from the billions of songbirds that nest in the forest to industries that depend on its vast reserves to stored carbon now locked in permafrost beneath it. 'There could be big trouble' The study concludes that better management of the boreal forest is needed. For example, spruce trees that are commonly replanted by forestry companies aren't likely to do as well in a drier environment. "We really need some form of adaptive forest management," Schepaschenko said. While much attention is given to the fate of tropical rain forests — often referred to as the "lungs of the Earth" — Schepaschenko said the boreal is crucially important as well, if only for the amount of carbon it stores. "Boreal forests are underestimated right now. There could be big trouble. "In our small world, everything is connected." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Boreal forest suffering 'significant' losses in Russia, Canada Boreal forests ignored in climate change fight Save half of boreal forest from development, scientists urge 'Bird nursery' at risk unless half of Canada's boreal forest preserved Canada boreal forest protection expanded in 2013 but concerns remain External Links Read the abstract in Science here Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca