https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/tyrannosaurus-rex-bite-power-1.4119610
Tyrannosaurus rex could bite with the force of 3 cars | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Tyrannosaurus rex could bite with the force of 3 cars Social Sharing Technology & Science Tyrannosaurus rex could bite with the force of 3 cars Scientists have come up with one more reason to be amazed by Tyrannosaurus rex. The huge carnivorous dinosaur took a bite with an awe-inspiring force equal to the weight of three small cars, enabling it to crunch bones with ease. Social Sharing The massive dinosaur had the most powerful bite of any known creature Thomson Reuters · Posted: May 17, 2017 12:54 PM ET | Last Updated: May 17, 2017 A computer model based on the T. rex jaw muscle anatomy and analyses of living relatives like crocodilians and birds showed its bite force measured about 3,630 kilograms, the strongest of any dinosaur ever estimated. Scientists have come up with one more reason to be amazed by Tyrannosaurus rex. The huge carnivorous dinosaur took a bite with an awe-inspiring force equal to the weight of three small cars, enabling it to crunch bones with ease. Researchers on Wednesday said a computer model based on the T. rex jaw muscle anatomy and analyses of living relatives like crocodilians and birds showed its bite force measured about 3,630 kilograms, the strongest of any dinosaur ever estimated. "T. rex could pretty much bite through whatever it wanted, as long as it was made of flesh and bone," said Florida State University paleobiologist Gregory Erickson. Tyrannosaur teeth were serrated like steak knives In quantifying the power of T. rex's chomp, researchers also calculated how it transmitted its bite force through its conical, 18-centimetre teeth, finding it generated 30,300 kilograms per square centimetre of tooth pressure, another measure of its power, on the contact area of the teeth. Advantage over predators Bite marks on fossilized bones of dinosaurs like the horned Triceratops that lived alongside Tyrannosaurus some 66 million years ago in western North America indicated T. rex was a bone cruncher. The ability to pulverize and eat bones gave T. rex, which was about 13 metres long and weighed about 6.4 tonnes, an advantage over competing predators that could not. "Predators with bone-crunching abilities are able to exploit a high-risk, high-reward resource: the minerals that make up bone itself and the fatty marrow that is contained inside," said paleontologist Paul Gignac of the Oklahoma State University Center for Health Sciences, lead author of the study published in the journal Scientific Reports. "The risk is the potential to accrue extreme tooth damage from biting into bone, making it difficult or impossible to capture prey effectively or rupture the long bones of carcasses." Small, brainy tyrannosaur sheds light on how T. rex evolved Previous studies have estimated Tyrannosaurus rex's bite strength, but the researchers in the new study called their approach more sophisticated. Their computer modelling was developed and tested on alligators, with the researchers studying how each muscle contributed to the bite force. They concluded T. rex possessed the greatest tooth pressure of any creature ever studied. Its bite force far exceeded that of any living creature, but was not the greatest ever. For example, they estimated in 2012 an enormous croc called Deinosuchus, which lived a few million years before T. rex and weighed even more, had a bite strength of 10,400 kilograms. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Small, brainy tyrannosaur sheds light on how T. rex evolved New categories of dinosaur family tree proposed by scientists Titanosaur, largest dinosaur ever found, recreated by Canadian company Tyrannosaur teeth were serrated like steak knives External Links The Biomechanics Behind Extreme Osteophagy in Tyrannosaurus rex Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca