https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/ice-free-arctic-unlikely-to-sink-much-co2-1.970532
Ice-free Arctic unlikely to sink much CO2 | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Ice-free Arctic unlikely to sink much CO2 Social Sharing Technology & Science Ice-free Arctic unlikely to sink much CO2 Optimistic predictions that warming Arctic waters will soak up lots of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere are unlikely to come true, a new study suggests. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 22, 2010 4:08 PM ET | Last Updated: July 22, 2010 Optimistic predictions that warming Arctic waters will soak up lots of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere are unlikely to come true, a new study suggests. Carbon dioxide levels in surface waters of the Arctic Ocean have been rising rapidly and they probably can't hold much more of the greenhouse gas, reported a scientific paper published Thursday online in Science Express. That's because carbon dioxide from the atmosphere has been seeping quickly into the thin surface layer of water, and it takes a long time for the carbon dioxide to move into deeper layers, reported the international team of scientists led by Wei-Jun Cai of the University of Georgia. "That doesn't mean that nothing goes down into the deeper water," said E. Peter Jones, an emeritus research scientist at the Bedford Institute of Oceanography in Halifax, who co-authored the paper. "But it's not going to be the huge sink that some people, anyway, had thought it would be in an ice-free ocean." Increasing levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere have been linked to global climate change that might be slowed down if some of the carbon dioxide were to be removed by a large carbon sink. The earlier prediction that the Arctic might act that way was based on observations in very specific areas, such as ice-covered basins or ocean margins — areas where continental shelves drop off into deep oceans, the paper said. 2008 Canada Basin survey However, Cai, Jones and their collaborators did a much more detailed 2008 survey of the Canada Basin, a section of the Arctic Ocean just inside the Bering Strait. From a ship, they collected water samples at different depths and measured the carbon dioxide levels. Compared with an earlier underway survey in summer 1999, the researchers reported, temperatures had increased by three degrees, and a substantial amount of ice had melted. Jones, who has been researching the nutrients, alkalinity and carbonate content in Arctic waters for decades, said his main job in this project was transferring the water from the collection bottles and preparing them for lab analysis on board the ship. By comparing their results to those in 1994 and 1999, the researchers found carbon dioxide levels were much higher in surface waters now except in ice-covered areas. They also found that there was a negligible increase or possibly even a slight decrease in carbon dioxide absorption due to photosynthesis. They suggested that was largely because there are few nutrients in the surface waters to support the growth of photosynthesizing organisms such as algae. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Arctic ice melting faster than feared: study Make oceans vast carbon sinks, U.S. researchers say Arctic nations must act at UN climate change conference: ministers External Links Abstract of the article in Science Express Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca