http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/story/2011/07/18/science-neanderthal-human-interbreeding.html
Humans, Neanderthals got it on | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Humans, Neanderthals got it on Social Sharing Technology & Science Humans, Neanderthals got it on New research provides more evidence that humans and Neanderthals interbred thousands of years ago. And that could've given humans an evolutionary advantage. Social Sharing Lily Boisson · CBC News · Posted: Jul 18, 2011 3:53 PM ET | Last Updated: July 19, 2011 A new study adds more evidence to the theory that humans and Neanderthals interbred thousands of years ago. The study found that many humans outside of Africa share DNA with the long-extinct species. An international team of researchers has found that a small part of the human X chromosome, which originates from Neanderthals, is present in about nine per cent of individuals from outside of Africa. "Somewhere very early on, there was an encounter between Neanderthals and humans," Dr. Damian Labuda of the pediatrics department of the University of Montreal said. Labuda led a team of international scientists who compared chromosomal DNA from 6,000 individuals from around the world to the Neanderthal genome. They found that many people from across all continents except for sub-Saharan Africa shared a piece of DNA called a haplotype with Neanderthals. Labuda says this haplotype was most likely introduced to the human genome when modern humans were making their way out of Africa and settling in other parts of the planet. He estimates "intimate contact" between humans and Neanderthals took place in the Middle East 50,000 to 70,000 years ago. Neanderthals first appeared around 400,000 years ago and went extinct about 30,000 years ago. Scientists have always wondered whether the physically stronger Neanderthals ever intermixed with humans. But Labuda say thanks to recent advances in understanding the Neanderthal genome, we now know the answer. Recent breakthroughs Back in 1999 Labuda's team identified a haplotype in the human X chromosome that seemed different. "We had this piece of DNA which from the beginning looked bizarre," Labuda said. He speculated that this haplotype dubbed the "Neanderthal signature" was evidence of the two species mixing. "It was just a finding observation," he said, "we couldn't prove much about it." It wasn't until another team of scientists mapped the Neanderthal genome that he was able to test his theory. In 2010 a team of scientists led by Ed Green, of the University of California, Santa Cruz, was able to extract enough DNA from fossils to have one copy of 60 per cent of the entire Neanderthal genome. Soon after, Labuda and his team got to work. More research More research and analysis is needed to fully understand the role of Neanderthal genes in human evolution. But Labuda says intermixing may have provided an evolutionary advantage to humans by adding to our genetic variability. "More variability means more chances to survive and adapt," he says. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories New genome shows Neanderthal trace in humans QUIRKS & QUARKS: Neanderthals in the family Researchers unlock secrets of Neanderthal DNA External Links Study: An X-Linked Haplotype of Neandertal Origin Is Present Among All Non-African Populations Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca