https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/software-billionaire-buys-23m-ticket-into-space-1.686617
Software billionaire buys $23M ticket into space | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Software billionaire buys $23M ticket into space Social Sharing Technology & Science Software billionaire buys $23M ticket into space The billionaire software engineer behind Microsoft applications Word and Excel will become the fifth space tourist when he boards a Russian spaceship in two weeks bound for the International Space Station. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Mar 23, 2007 12:26 PM ET | Last Updated: March 23, 2007 The billionaire software engineer behind Microsoft applications Word and Excel will become the fifth space tourist when he boards a Russian spaceship in two weeks bound for the International Space Station. Charles Simonyi, 58, speaks during a news conference in Star City outside Moscow, on Thursday, about his upcoming visit to the space station aboard a Russian Soyuz spacecraft. ((Sergey Ponomarev/Associated Press)) But while Charles Simonyi, 58, had to pay over $23 million to join a select group of private citizens who have visited the station, his crew mates insisted he will not be a spectator. "He will work responsibly and with full dedication," said Russian cosmonaut Oleg Kotov at a press conference on Thursday. "If you look at the program of his flight, he practically doesn't have spare time." Hewill travel to the space station with cosmonauts Kotov and Fyodor Yurchikhin aboard a Soyuz TMA-10 capsule scheduled to launch on Saturday, April 7. While on board, Simonyi is expected to perform simpler tasks as part of the crew and participate ina number of experiments, including measuring radiation levels and studying biological organisms inside the space station. He will return to Earth 11 days later with two current space station crew members — Russian cosmonaut Mikhail Tyurin and Spanish-born U.S. astronaut Miguel Lopez-Alegria. Kotov and Yurchikhin will remain aboard the space station with U.S. astronaut Sunita Williams. The Hungarian-born Simonyi joined Microsoft in 1981,where he developed the world's most commonly used word processing and spreadsheet programs, Word and Excel. He left Microsoftin2002 to found Intentional Software Corp. He is the fifth person to travel to the station aboard Russian rockets in trips arranged by U.S.-based Space Adventures Ltd., joining American businessmen Dennis Tito and Gregory Olsen, South African technology entrepreneur Mark Shuttleworth and Iranian-American entrepreneur Anousheh Ansari. Like the other four space tourists, Simonyi had to train for the mission, learning to handle dizziness in space, walk and breathe in the spacesuit and prepare for helicopter rescues in case of a water landing upon the spaceship's return to Earth. But Simonyisaid that after his training he is confident the mission will go smoothly. "I am nervous about public appearances and press conferences, but I think that about the flight I am not nervous at all," the soft-spoken Simonyi said. "I've learned about the system, and the more I learn, the more sure I am about the backups … and I think it's perfectly safe." All three members of the current space station crew will have to don their spacesuits next Friday in preparation for the station's new arrivals. To make for an easier docking procedure, the station crew will have to pilot the last Soyuz spacecraft module from its Earth-facing docking port to a parking spot at the aft end of the station's service module. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories NASA announces next space station crew Billionaire behind Microsoft Word, Excel to be next space tourist IN DEPTH: Civilians in space Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca