https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/aboriginal-people-may-have-lived-on-beringia-for-millenia-1.2554118
Aboriginal people may have lived on Beringia for millenia | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Aboriginal people may have lived on Beringia for millenia Social Sharing Technology & Science Aboriginal people may have lived on Beringia for millenia Aboriginal people may have become who they are today during a 10,000-year stopover in a land that no longer exists, says a provocative essay in a major scientific journal. Social Sharing Possibility could explain 10,000-year genetic gap between Siberians and aboriginal North Americans The Canadian Press · Posted: Feb 27, 2014 3:58 PM ET | Last Updated: February 27, 2014 Evidence from the sea floor suggests that parts of Beringia were once shrub tundra with edible plants and animals, similar to this landscape in modern-day Alaska. (Nancy Bigelow/University of Alaska Fairbanks) comments Aboriginal people may have become who they are today during a 10,000-year stopover in a land that no longer exists, says a provocative essay in a major scientific journal. "It was a substantial population, if only because it clearly persisted for 10,000 years or so," said Dennis O'Rourke, a University of Utah geneticist and co-author of an article published Thursday in Science magazine. "The people would have been very adept at extracting resources. They were a very successful population or they would not have survived." Scientists have long believed that the ancestors of North American aboriginals came from Siberia during the Ice Age, when massive glaciers covering most of the continent lowered sea levels enough to expose a vast stretch of land now called Beringia. Conventional wisdom has it that sometime between 25,000 and 15,000 years ago, the ancestors crossed Beringia, trekked an ice-free corridor down the West Coast and settled in various spots on a fresh new continent. But a few things have never quite added up. The genetic markers that make North America's aboriginals distinct from Siberians are up to 25,000 years old. But those markers didn't spread through the continent until about 15,000 years ago — a gap of 10,000 years. Those ancient hunters and gatherers had to have spent those missing millennia somewhere that would both support them and isolate them from the Siberian genetic pool they were leaving behind. Evidence from sea floor O'Rourke and his two co-authors believe they may have found the answer in the seemingly unrelated field of paleoecology, the study of ancient environmental systems. Sea-floor cores from beneath today's Bering Sea show that Beringia — which stretched from Siberia to Canada's Mackenzie River — was not the barren, treeless tundra it was assumed to have been. "There were these areas in Beringia that weren't steppe tundra, but were shrub tundra, where trees and shrubs and a variety of other plants and the animals that subsisted on them occurred," O'Rourke said. "These (pockets) would have included a whole host of plant communities, small mammals, large mammals from mammoth to moose and elk. There would have been lots of animals to hunt." Summer temperatures would have been about what they are today, although winters were colder. O'Rourke suggests anywhere from a few hundred to a few thousand people lived in those more hospitable areas of Beringia as they drifted further and further from their genetic roots in Siberia over 10,000 years. When they finally resumed their eastward migration, they had become the ancestors of all modern North and South American aboriginals. No archaeological traces Archeologists haven't found any traces of those ancient people, but paleoecology has provided O'Rourke with an answer for that as well. Evidence suggests the livable bits of Beringia were low-lying — exactly the areas that would have been submerged first during the post-Ice-Age melt. Present-day Alaska and Yukon are the uplands where humans would have hunted, but probably not lived. "The paleoecology helps explain why there isn't an archeological record that reflects the genetic data," O'Rourke said. "That population was concentrated in refugia areas, which we now have reason to think were in the lowlands, the areas now under water. "If we happen to be right about this, some coastal underwater archeology might not be untoward." Quite apart from whether he's right, O'Rourke said he hopes his paper will encourage fellow scientists to think outside their disciplinary box. "I was just not adequately familiar with the paleoenvironmental data and the implications of it," he said. "It's my hope, and my co-authors as well, to get (scientists) to be more familiar with research that's coming out in different research streams, so that we do much more cross-disciplinary communication. "I think that is going to lead us to some creative thinking." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Ancient toddler's remains re-ignite native origins debate Clovis people not 1st to arrive in North America External Links Summary of article in Science News release from University of Colorado Boulder Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca