https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/ocean-plunge-reveals-many-new-species-1.514993
Ocean plunge reveals many new species | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Ocean plunge reveals many new species Social Sharing Technology & Science Ocean plunge reveals many new species Scientists from more than 70 countries are finding more than two news species of fish per week for their Census of Marine Life. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Nov 23, 2004 4:59 PM ET | Last Updated: November 23, 2004 Scientists are discovering more than two new species of fish a week on average in their survey of the world's oceans. Researchers from more than 70 countries are collaborating on the world's first Census of Marine Life, a $1-billion US project due to report findings in 2010. INDEPTH: Census of Marine Life "We have barely skimmed the surface," said Frederick Grassle of Rutgers University, who chairs the scientific steering committee for the census. "Humans have explored less than five per cent of the world's oceans." To date, scientists have described about 230,000 marine species, including 106 new species of marine fish that were added to the database so far this year. The newcomers include a striped goby that lives off Guam in the Pacific, and two types of octopus in the Antarctic. Acoustic tags revealed rare green sturgeon 1,000 kilometres north of their spawning grounds in California. About 30 of the fish were found off northern Vancouver Island. Researchers are also using new techniques such as sophisticated filtering and gene sequencing to find new microbial species. On Monday, they released a map showing what has been catalogued so far in the Ocean Biographic Information System database. The locations of species ranging from microbes to whales are represented by dots on the map. Researchers hope the project will improve their understanding of the oceans and help them to monitor overfishing and climate change. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Census of Marine Life Census of Marine Life Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca