http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/new-dinosaur-cousin-of-t-rex-discovered-in-arctic-1.2570982
New dinosaur, cousin of T. Rex, discovered in Arctic | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news New dinosaur, cousin of T. Rex, discovered in Arctic Social Sharing Technology & Science New dinosaur, cousin of T. Rex, discovered in Arctic Scientists have discovered a tiny cousin of the Tyrannosaurus rex that lived near the Yukon border on the Beaufort Sea 70 million years ago. Social Sharing New dinosaur was half the size of T. Rex, but still much bigger than a human The Canadian Press · Posted: Mar 13, 2014 10:10 AM ET | Last Updated: April 7, 2014 The tiny tyrrannosaur was about half the size of the T. Rex. Its skull was about 64 centimetres long and it stood less than three-metres high. (Illustration by Karen Carr) comments Scientists have discovered a new species of dinosaur that called the Arctic home 70 million years ago. Nanuqsaurus hoglundi was a — relatively — tiny cousin of the Tyrannosaurus rex. The unidentified fossilized fragments of the skull and jaw were found in northern Alaska almost eight years ago, in an area known as the Kikak-Tegoseak quarry, on the North Slope close to the Yukon border. "The big difference between Tyrannosaurus rex and Nanuqsaurus, and Tarbosaurus for example, which is the Asian tyrannosaur, is that Nanuqsaurus is about half the size," said Tony Fiorillo of the Perot Museum of Nature and Science in Texas. "We feel that's an adaptation to life in the North." Even though the Arctic was much warmer and more heavily forested in the Cretaceous period than it is now, it still had drastic changes in the lengths of days and nights, depending on the seasons. The 24-hour darkness of winter would have made food scarce at that time of year, and Nanuqsaurusmay have adapted with a smaller body size. Nanuqsaurus — named for the native Inupiat word for polar bear — had a skull about 64 centimetres long and stood about two metres high at the hip. The researchers analyzed bones from the skull and jaw of the new dinosaur. (Anthony R. Fiorillo and Ronald S. Tykoski/Perot Museum of Nature and Sciences) He inhabited a drastically different Arctic than the one we know today. During the Cretaceous period, the area was a coastal plain that, like now, had the Arctic Ocean to the north and snow-capped mountains to the south. But the Arctic was much warmer, and the area was covered in tall, conifer forests and flowering plants. The temperature would have been similar to western Canada today. Although Alberta is world-famous for its dinosaur bone beds, Fiorillo said the Arctic remains largely uncharted territory. The 2006 dig produced not one, but two new dinosaur species. Fiorillo and his colleagues have also identified a new species of horned dinosaur from the Kikak-Tegoseak quarry, east of the massive Colville River. "I can tell you that it's absolutely mind blowing that out of the very same hole in the ground we got not one, but two brand new dinosaurs," he said. The team also discovered the Pachyrhinosaurus, a cousin of the triceratops. Did these dinos call Canada home? At the time, the Brooks range was likely even bigger than it is today and would have blocked the creatures from going south. But there was a coastal plain that would have connected to Canada, Fiorillo said. "So it's entirely possible to expect to see some of these North Slope dinosaurs into that part of Canada," he said. Northern Alaska 'littered' with dino fossils Grant Zazula, paleontologist for the Yukon government, said northern Alaska appears to be "littered" with dinosaur fossils. The neighbouring territory has a number of sites that are also 65 to 70 million years old but few have been explored. The territory is known for fossils of ice-age mammals, such as the woolly mammoth, but dinosaurs have been more elusive. Until a few years ago only five fossil bones of dinosaurs had been found along with some dinosaur footprints preserved in the bedrock near the Ross River. Then a team of paleontologists from Carlton University found the fossil of a plesiosaur, an ancient marine reptile, in the bedrock near the Peel River in northern Yukon. "But nothing like what they have in Alaska," Zazula said. "We're thoroughly jealous." Zazula said he hopes the finding shines a light on the paleo potential of the Arctic. "Alaska is huge, the Arctic of Canada is huge, and there's been so few boots on the ground looking for stuff like this. I think finding a new species like this will just pave the way for future research in the North," he said. Silhouettes showing approximate sizes of different theropod dinosaurs. They are: A) Nanuqsaurus hoglundi; B) and C) Tyrannosaurus rex; D) Daspletosaurus torosus; E) Albertosaurus sarcophagus; F) and G) Troodon. The scale bar represents one metre. (Anthony R. Fiorillo and Ronald S. Tykoski/Perot Museum of Nature and Sciences) With files from CBC News CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories T. rex tooth found lodged in escaped prey Predatory dinosaur was fearsomely fast T. rex's tail made it speedy T. rex was a cannibal External Links Full paper in PLOS ONE Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca