https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/world-bank-leads-carbon-pricing-push-before-un-climate-summit-1.2774103
World Bank leads carbon pricing push before UN Climate Summit | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news World Bank leads carbon pricing push before UN Climate Summit Social Sharing Technology & Science World Bank leads carbon pricing push before UN Climate Summit The World Bank says 73 national and 11 regional governments — including Alberta, B.C. and Quebec — and 1,000 companies will join forces to push for policies setting a price on carbon emissions to encourage a shift to cleaner energy technologies. Social Sharing Canadian and U.S. government support still missing Thomson Reuters · Posted: Sep 22, 2014 12:44 PM ET | Last Updated: September 22, 2014 A truck works near the Syncrude oilsands extraction facility near the town of Fort McMurray, Alta. The province's government is among dozens of national and regional governments that have signed a World Bank statement pushing for carbon pricing. (Jason Franson/Canadian Press) comments The World Bank said Monday that 73 national and 11 regional governments and some 1,000 companies will join forces to push for policies setting a price on carbon emissions to encourage a shift to cleaner energy technologies. The announcement aims to build momentum for a high-profile UN summit on climate change on Tuesday that Secretary General Ban Ki-moon hopes will mobilize governments and the private sector to make "bold commitments" to address climate change. Global CO2 emissions break record ahead of UN Climate Summit Rockefellers to sell oil assets in fight against global warming The World Bank and United Nations have been strong advocates for policies that shift the responsibility to polluters to pay for carbon emissions. PHOTOS | Climate marches around the world On Sunday evening, the UN General Assembly headquarters was lit up with a projection across it saying "Put a Price on Carbon." Big emitters such as China and EU countries joined growing economies and some of the least developed nations to form the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, the World Bank announced, an effort to encourage countries to adopt measures such as carbon taxes or cap-and-trade systems to drive a reduction in carbon emissions across the world. The list does not include the Canadian government, but does include the government of oil-rich Alberta. It also includes two other provinces — B.C. and Quebec — whose carbon pricing and emissions trading policies are featured in the World Bank news release. Read the World Bank's statement on carbon pricing Read the full list of governments and companies supporting the statement Companies such as airline group IAG and electric utility Électricité de France, are also expected to back the coalition, which Kim said will spur "action across their sectors, supply chains, and with their neighbours and allies." Many large companies believe widespread carbon pricing would signal long-term, stable investment rather than uncertain and potentially more costly policies in future. Global investors push for carbon pricing ahead of UN climate summit "Governments representing almost half of the world's population and 52 per cent of global GDP have thrown their weight behind a price on carbon as a necessary, if insufficient, solution to climate change and a step on the path to low carbon growth," said World Bank president Jim Yong Kim in a statement. Setting a price for each tonne of carbon that emitters produce is meant to encourage companies to adopt cleaner technologies and shift away from using fossil fuels. Existing carbon taxes, emissions trading schemes Around 40 countries and over 20 states, regions or cities have either set up or are planning to set up emissions trading schemes or carbon taxes. Together, they account for more than 22 per cent of global emissions. While national governments from Berlin to Beijing have embraced market-based solutions to combat climate change, a polarized U.S. Congress has rejected measures to set a national price on carbon. States such as California and New York have their own carbon initiatives in place. Using a carbon price sends an economic signal, forcing polluters to decide whether to reduce emissions, curtail their polluting activity, or pay for each ton they emit, and is the "least cost way" for countries to meet their environmental goals, Kim wrote in a recent blog post on the subject. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Global CO2 emissions break record ahead of UN Climate Summit Climate change called public health threat by medical journal Global investors push for carbon pricing ahead of UN climate summit Rockefellers to sell oil assets as part of $50B global warming fight Importing air pollution from China UN Climate Summit: Thousands march worldwide ahead of meeting Global heat record set in August 2014 External Links List of governments and companies supporting carbon pricing World Bank news release UN Climate Change Summit 2014 Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca