https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/australian-researchers-cast-doubt-hobbit-fossil-was-new-species-1.743880
Australian researchers cast doubt 'Hobbit' fossil was new species | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Australian researchers cast doubt 'Hobbit' fossil was new species Social Sharing Technology & Science Australian researchers cast doubt 'Hobbit' fossil was new species A diminutive humanoid fossil found on a remote island in Indonesia was likely a human with miniature features due to a nutritional deficiency, researchers in Australia said in the latest study in an ongoing scientific debate over the small human-like skeletal remains. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Mar 05, 2008 3:12 PM ET | Last Updated: March 5, 2008 A diminutive humanoid fossil found on a remote island in Indonesia was likely a human with miniature features due to a nutritional deficiency, researchers in Australia said in the latest study in an ongoing scientific debate over the small human-like skeletal remains. Writing in the Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences, the scientists said a study of a cast of the skeleton of the Homo floresiensis fossil — known as "the Hobbit" — suggest the humanoid likely had cretinism, a condition of severely stunted physical and mental growth due to a deficiency of thyroid hormones. Peter Obendorf of RMIT University in Melbourne and colleagues said the fossil had certain structural features — such as the rotation of the arm bone and an enlarged pituitary gland at the base of the skull behind the nasal region — that matched medical descriptions of cretinism. He suggested a deficiency of iodine and selenium in the diet of the mother would have increased the risk of the humanoid developing the condition. Because the fossil was found inland, the humanoid's family could have been without access to seafood, an important source of iodine. Obendorf said the next step of the research would be to look at the actual fossil remains to see if they match their findings from examining the cast. Since its discovery on the Indonesian island of Flores in 2003, the one metre-tall fossil, known as LB1, has become the subject of intense scrutiny and debate in the scientific community over whether the humanoid's small size pointed toward a new species or was simply the result of a genetic condition such as dwarfism. The remains are estimated to date back some 15,000 to 18,000 years. The fossil was dubbed "the Hobbit" in the media, after the diminutive characters in J.R.R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings novels. A study published in 2007 in the journal Science found that the fossil wrists were far more primitive than either Neanderthals or modern humans, suggesting a new species. Critics, however, have suggested the fossil's small skull was too small to have accommodated the tool-making intelligence attributed to the humanoid after stone-flaking technology was found at the same site. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Wrists of 'hobbit' fossil suggest new species 'Hobbit' fossil: dwarf or new species? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca