http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/bees-may-get-hooked-on-neonicotinoid-pesticides-1.3044237
Bees may get hooked on neonicotinoid pesticides | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Bees may get hooked on neonicotinoid pesticides Social Sharing Technology & Science Bees may get hooked on neonicotinoid pesticides Bees may be getting hooked on nectar laced with widely used nicotine-related chemicals in pesticides they cannot even taste, in the same way humans are addicted to cigarettes, new research has found. Social Sharing Nicotine-like pesticides affect reproduction, colony growth in some bee species Thomson Reuters · Posted: Apr 22, 2015 3:05 PM ET | Last Updated: May 1, 2015 Researchers were shocked to find that honeybees and bumblebees drank more from pesticide-containing solutions than those that didn't contain pesticides. (Matthias A. Fürst) comments Bees may be getting hooked on nectar laced with widely used nicotine-related chemicals in pesticides they cannot even taste, in the same way humans are addicted to cigarettes, new research has found. Adding to evidence of potential harm from the chemicals, another field-scale study published on Wednesday also found that exposure to so-called neonicotinoids affects reproduction and colony growth in some bee species. Bee researchers raise more warning flags about neonicotinoid pesticides Europe has placed restrictions on three such pesticides, citing concerns for bees, but debate continues about the impact of low doses on these and other non-target insects. As soon as it gets into their blood they are getting a little buzz, as it were. - Geraldine Wright, Newcastle University Supporters of neonicotinoids — made by companies including Bayer and Syngenta — say they have a major benefit because they destroy pests and boost crop yields. Canadian beekeepers sue Bayer and Syngenta over neonicotinoid pesticides Critics, however, fear they contribute to a decline in bees, which are crucial for crop pollination. A team of Swedish researchers found that oilseed rape sown from seeds coated in neonicotinoids reduced the nesting of solitary bees like this one, which build brood cells in tubes. (Morgan Boch) To find out more, Geraldine Wright of Newcastle University and colleagues offered bees a choice of sipping on pure sugar water or a sugar solution containing very low doses of neonicotinoids. Wright said she was shocked to find that honeybees and bumblebees drank more from pesticide-containing solutions, implying that naturally foraging bees would do likewise. "There's a conundrum that they are attracted to the stuff that actually is having a negative impact on their motor function and their ability to collect food and forage," she told reporters. Summary of the paper in Nature The most likely reason lies in the similarity of the chemicals to nicotine, which itself is produced by tobacco plants to prevent against attacks by insects. In large amounts it is toxic, but a little bit acts as a drug. "As soon as it gets into their blood they are getting a little buzz, as it were, and they are responding to that," Wright said. Honeybees unharmed Separately, a team of Swedish researchers found that oilseed rape sown from seeds coated in neonicotinoids reduced wild bee density, solitary bee nesting and bumblebee colony growth. Neonicotinoid exposure did not significantly impact honeybee colonies, possibly because they have larger colonies with more workers and are better equipped to deal with damage, but scientists said the evidence against the chemicals was growing. "At this point in time it is no longer credible to argue that agricultural use of neonicotinoids does not harm wild bees," said David Goulson, a biologist at the University of Sussex, who was not involved in either of the research efforts. Both bee studies were published in the journal Nature. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Lowe's to phase out neonics, nursery plants grown with pesticide Bees, birds may suffer long-term consequences from common pesticides Pesticides linked to bee deaths must be banned, scientists say Canadian beekeepers sue Bayer and Syngenta over neonicotinoid pesticides More than half of Ontario bees died during harsh winter Ontario looking to restrict use of bee-killing pesticides Special Report Bee researchers raise more warning flags about neonicotinoid pesticides External Links Nature: Bees prefer foods containing neonicotinoid pesticides Nature: Seed coating with a neonicotinoid insecticide negatively affects wild bees Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca