https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/recession-clipped-co2-emissions-slightly-1.924360
Recession clipped CO2 emissions slightly | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Recession clipped CO2 emissions slightly Social Sharing Technology & Science Recession clipped CO2 emissions slightly The crisis that hit world financial markets in 2008 caused greenhouse gas emissions to dip slightly the following year, but far less less than previously predicted. Social Sharing Posted: Nov 22, 2010 8:34 AM ET | Last Updated: November 22, 2010 The crisis that hit world financial markets in 2008 caused greenhouse gas emissions to dip slightly the following year, experts have calculated. But the decrease was less than half that previously predicted, and highlights the growth in carbon dioxide emissions from developing nations. Over the past 100 years, the increase in carbon dioxide levels has been attributed to emissions produced by the burning of fossil fuels. Scientists believe that those emissions are closely tied to economic growth, so they had expected the global financial crisis to have some impact. Exactly how big the impact would be wasn't clear. Now, an international group of researchers from the Global Carbon Project report a decrease of 1.3 per cent, much smaller than they expected, according to their report in the journal Nature Geoscience. Just a year ago, the researchers had estimated that the financial crisis would cause emissions to drop by 2.8 per cent, roughly equivalent to the amount that emissions had been increasing each year. GDP impact overestimated The disparity arose because the International Monetary Fund overestimated the impact that the financial crisis would have on global gross domestic product (GDP), says Pep Canadell, executive director of the Global Carbon Project, and a research scientist in CSIRO Marine and Atmospheric Research. "Our forecasts are as good as the quality of the forecast of global GDP," he said. Canadell also points out that the financial crisis did not affect all countries equally. While carbon dioxide emissions dropped in 2009 in places like North America, Europe and Japan, they increased substantially in China and India. Looking ahead, the researchers note that the International Monetary Fund is projecting an increase of global GDP by 4.8 per cent in 2010, which will lead to an increase in global emissions of at least three per cent this year. Drop in deforestation emissions The researchers also point out that the regrowth of forests in temperate regions has overcompensated for carbon dioxide emissions from land conversion outside the tropics. "In the temperate world, we're now planting more trees that we are cutting down," says Canadell. In fact the scientists estimate that global emissions from deforestation and other land use change seem to be lower now than in the 1990s. "A recent decrease in land use change emissions would be consistent with the reported downward trends of deforestation detected from satellite data in the Brazilian Amazon and Indonesia," they write. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Carbon emissions from fossil fuels rise Recession slows climate change progress: Obama External Links Global Carbon Project Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca