https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/un-emissions-report-1.5373154
Earth set to warm 3.2 C by 2100 unless efforts to cut emissions are tripled, new UN report finds | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Earth set to warm 3.2 C by 2100 unless efforts to cut emissions are tripled, new UN report finds Social Sharing Technology & Science Earth set to warm 3.2 C by 2100 unless efforts to cut emissions are tripled, new UN report finds Without drastic action, our planet is headed toward warming of 3.2 C in less than 100 years, according to a new report. The United Nations Environment Programme's annual Emissions Gap Report calls for urgent action to limit global warming to 1.5 C or 2 C by 2100. Social Sharing One expert calls findings of 3.2 C warming 'terrifying' Nicole Mortillaro · CBC News · Posted: Nov 26, 2019 3:00 AM ET | Last Updated: November 27, 2019 Australia has faced devastating — many say unprecedented — wildfires across New South Wales this month. There is concern that climate change has exacerbated wildfires in the country. (Brett Hemmings/Getty Images) comments Without drastic action, our planet is headed toward warming of 3.2 C in less than 100 years, according to a new report. The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) released its annual Emissions Gap Report on Tuesday — 168 pages, compiled by 57 leading scientists from 33 institutions across 25 countries — calling on governments to act immediately, within the next decade, to limit global warming to 1.5 C or 2 C by 2100. "By now, we know all we need to know. The science is pretty clear, and very frightening," said Anne Olhoff, head of strategy, climate and planning and policy for the UNEP DTU (Technical University of Denmark) Partnership. "But we also know we have the technological options that are needed, at least to the short to medium term." The report assesses scientific studies on both current greenhouse gas emissions and estimated future emissions, comparing them with possible reduction targets to avoid warming the world more than 1.5 to 2 C. Some key highlights from the report include: Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) have increased 1.5 per cent annually over the past decade. By 2030, annual emissions need to be 15 gigatonnes of CO2 lower to reach the 2 C goal, and 32 gigatonnes lower for 1.5 C. GHG emissions have to drop by 2.7 per cent per year from 2020 to 2030 for the 2 C goal, and by 7.6 per cent per year for the 1.5 C target. To reach these goals, efforts must increase at least fivefold for the 1.5 C goal and threefold for the 2 C. Only five of the G20 nations have committed to targets in their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) that align with the ambition of the Paris Agreement to limit the rise in global average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels. Canada has not committed to a target that is in line with this scenario. "It has to be not just verbal but some kind of written commitment," Olhoff said. "It doesn't have to be passed by law, but it could be a bill under development; it could be more formalized than mentioning it in public." While, during the election campaign Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said the federal government would commit to legislate net-zero emissions by 2050 — even stating that Canada would be below the country's 2030 emissions goal — the current trajectory points to a different story. In fact, the report notes, with current policies in place, Canada will be at least 15 per cent above target. It does note, however, that Canada is committed to phasing out coal and implemented a carbon tax in its efforts to reduce emissions. It also notes that Canada's 2030 emissions are forecast to be 592 megatonnes, which is 223 megatonnes lower than was projected before its rollout of the Pan-Canadian Framework for Clean Growth and Climate Change. But it still misses the target of 511 megatonnes. Dire consequences Gabriel Filippelli, a professor at the Purdue School of Science in Indianapolis, Ind., who was a senior science adviser for the U.S. State Department from 2013 to 2014, said that the difference between 2 C and 3.2 C warming may seem minor, but that's anything but the case. UN's executive director of environment program points to way forward amid grim statistics 0:36 "It seems mathematically like we're playing around with numbers, but they are profound numbers," Filippelli said. And he doesn't take those numbers lightly. He knows each fraction of a degree the planet warms means dire consequences, particularly in countries most vulnerable. Grooming forests could be making fires worse, researchers warn "It's frankly terrifying to me largely because, once again, it'll be a case where those countries that are the least responsible for the root cause of this … who will be first impacted, and in a major way." His concerns are well-founded. In October 2018, the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change released a special report, Global Warming of 1.5 C, which looked at the difference between a world that had warmed by 2 C and one that warmed by 1.5 C. The findings were dramatic. Coral reefs were project to decline by 70 to 90 per cent at 1.5 C. There was a high risk of irreversible losses at 2 C of warming. This image from the Australian Research Council's Centre of Excellence illustrates the coral bleaching of 2017 near Orpheus Island in the Great Barrier Reef off the coast of Australia. It was the second year in a row that the reef experienced a major bleaching event. (ARC Centre of Excellence Coral Reef Studies/Greg Torda) Millions of people could face poverty, flooding and drought if the planet warmed by 2 C. But the IPCC didn't look at a world that warmed beyond than that. Jennifer Francis, a senior scientist at Woods Hole Research Center in Falmouth, Mass., an independent research organization that studies climate change, said that a 3.2 C warming world would cause untold suffering. "Looking at migration, [a 3.2 C increase] would make what we're seeing coming out Latin America now into Mexico and into the U.S. look like nothing," Francis said. "There's just going to be people suffering in places where it will become literally uninhabitable, where they won't be able to grow food anymore, where their animals won't be able to live anymore. "That's what I worry about the most, the conflict and the misery that's going to happen around the world," she said. "That's what keeps me up at night." Central American migrants, part of the caravan hoping to reach the U.S. border, move on a road in Tapachula, Mexico, in March. Climate change is expected to displace millions more people as some areas become uninhabitable. (Isabel Mateos/The Associated Press) What's more, she says, it's important for people to realize the end of the century isn't really that far away. It is just one lifetime: a mere 80 years from now. And the consequences from a warming world aren't relegated to the next century: today's generations are already feeling the effects. "It's here," Francis said. "It's not the future." The good news As is typical with any UN climate change report, there is a positive take. Countries committed to the Paris Agreement and NDCs are set to meet in Madrid on Dec. 2 for the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP25), and to meet in Glasgow in November 2020 to examine NDC efforts. But the new report says, countries can't wait that long. Action needs to be taken immediately. "We're seriously behind on this," Filippelli said. "It's all doable but … every month that we don't have aggressive action, we fall, frankly, four months behind." Greenhouse gases accelerated to new peak in 2018, UN says We'll see an ice-free Arctic this century, latest research says The good news, the authors say, is that technology already exists that could help change our trajectory from 3.2 C. Renewables and energy efficiency is one of the key measures to effectively reduce emissions, and the electrification of heat and energy and even transportation could make major headway. With that, however, comes a hefty price tag: roughly $1.6 to $3.8 trillion annually over the next decade. But it will be worth the cost, Olhoff said. "This is definitely not a world we want to pass on to our children and grandchildren," she said. "It's not a world we want." About the Author Nicole Mortillaro Senior Reporter, Science Nicole has an avid interest in all things science. As an amateur astronomer, Nicole can be found looking up at the night sky appreciating the marvels of our universe. She is the editor of the Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada and the author of several books. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Recent warming over the past 100 years is not part of a natural process, studies find As forest fires rage, experts worry about the future of the Amazon What on Earth? Greta Thunberg has talked about a 'carbon budget.' What is it, and why does it matter? Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca