http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/sea-level-earth-rotation-1.3361446
Melting glaciers, rising sea level slow down Earth's rotation | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Melting glaciers, rising sea level slow down Earth's rotation Social Sharing Technology & Science Melting glaciers, rising sea level slow down Earth's rotation With human-caused climate change, we puny creatures are having some powerful effects on our entire planet. That includes one you might not imagine was possible —slowing the Earth's spin. Social Sharing Ancient eclipse records used to calculate changes in speed of Earth's spin Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Dec 11, 2015 3:35 PM ET | Last Updated: December 11, 2015 The new study shows that the Earth's rotation is slowing down as a result of melting glaciers and rising sea levels. (NASA) comments With human-caused climate change, we puny creatures are having some powerful effects on our entire planet, including one you might not imagine was possible — making it spin more slowly. The melting of glaciers near the Earth's poles and the resulting rise in sea level is slowing down the Earth's rotation and making each day a little longer, a new study confirms. Glacier melt in B.C. mountains reaches shocking levels Photos show Patagonia's massive, melting glaciers Scientists had predicted it would happen, but to their puzzlement, they couldn't measure much of an effect. Glaciers contain a huge amount of mass near the poles, close to the Earth's axis of rotation, which runs from pole to pole. When glaciers melt, the meltwater ends up in the oceans, which have most of their volume near the equator, farther away from the Earth's axis. Sea level has climbed 8 centimetres since 1992 Halifax sea levels spiked by 11cm in two years Scientists measure changes in the speed of the Earth's rotation over thousands of years by looking at records of ancient eclipses recorded by civilizations such as the Babylonians, says Mathieu Dumberry, a physics professor at the University of Alberta. (John Ulan) Just as a spinning figure skater slows down as she extends her arms out from her chest, moving mass away from the Earth's axis of rotation should slow the Earth down, says Mathieu Dumberry, a physics professor at the University of Alberta who co-authored the paper published today in the journal Science Advances. Study co-author Sabine Stanley talks to Quirks & Quarks Scientists measure changes in the speed of the Earth's rotation over thousands of years by looking at records of ancient eclipses recorded by civilizations such as the Babylonians, Dumberry said. Because astronomers know the Earth's orbit very precisely, they can predict exactly what date and time eclipses should have been visible if the Earth were always rotating at the same rate as it is today. But if the Earth were rotating at a slightly different speed, the part of the Earth facing the moon at a given point during the eclipse would be different. Just as a spinning figure skater slows down as she extends her arms away from her chest, moving mass away from the Earth's axis of rotation should slow the Earth down. (Lucy Nicholson/Reuters) The eclipse records showed the Earth just wasn't slowing down as much as scientists expected as the glaciers melted, based on our most recent understanding of different factors that affect the Earth's rotation. Those include: The rise in the Earth's crust near the poles once it was no longer pressed down by the weight of ice sheets from the last ice age – a phenomenon called post-glacial rebound that tends to speed up the Earth's rotation. The pull of the moon, which tends to slow down the rotation. The numbers just didn't add up, and scientists couldn't explain why. 'Like a hamster in a wheel' The new study, led by Jerry Mitrovica, a professor of geophysics at Harvard University, found there was a piece missing. We only directly observe the rotation of the Earth's surface, but the Earth's liquid core doesn't rotate at the same rate. "It's like a hamster in a wheel," Dumberry said. "The hamster runs in one direction and the wheel [turns] in the other." Glaciers such as Argentina's Perito Moreno contain a huge amount of mass near the poles, close to the Earth's axis of rotation. When glaciers melt, the meltwater ends up in the oceans, which have most of their volume near the equator, farther away from the Earth's axis. (Mario Tama/Getty) Changes in the rotation of the Earth's core can be detected by changes in the Earth's magnetic field. "Earth's core has accelerated," Dumberry said. "It has been moving slightly faster in the past 3,000 years." The researchers added that missing piece of information to their calculations, along with the latest tide gauge and satellite data about the amount of sea-level rise and post-glacial rebound. They found glacier melt due to climate change since the industrial revolution has caused the Earth to slow down exactly as they had predicted. How much? Don't expect too much extra time on your hands — researchers predict that a century from now, Earth's slower rotation will make each day 1.7 milliseconds longer. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Photos show Patagonia's massive, melting glaciers Sea level has climbed 8 centimetres since 1992 Greenland glacier sheds billions of tonnes of ice into ocean Coverage of the Paris climate talks External Links Summary of the paper Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca