http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/little-dome-headed-dinosaur-discovered-in-alberta-1.1313992
Little dome-headed dinosaur discovered in Alberta | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Little dome-headed dinosaur discovered in Alberta Social Sharing Technology & Science Little dome-headed dinosaur discovered in Alberta A newly identified species of dome-headed dinosaur roughly the size of a large dog once roamed southern Alberta, a team of Canadian scientists announced Tuesday. Social Sharing Discovery suggests small dinosaurs were very diverse The Canadian Press · Posted: May 07, 2013 1:25 PM ET | Last Updated: May 8, 2013 Acrotholus audeti was plant-eating dinosaur that walked on two legs and weighed about 40 kilograms. (Julius Csotonyi) A newly identified species of dome-headed dinosaur roughly the size of a large dog once roamed southern Alberta, a team of Canadian scientists announced Tuesday. The discovery of the Acrotholus audeti touched off further investigation that suggested the world's dinosaur population was more diverse than once believed. Details of the study were published Tuesday in the journal Nature Communications. A nearly perfectly-preserved specimen of Acrotholus audeti, including this skull dome, was found by University of Toronto graduate student Caleb Brown on the property of an Alberta rancher in 2008. (Brian Boyle/ROM) Study lead author David Evans, curator of vertebrate paleontology at the Royal Ontario Museum, said Acrotholus' comparatively diminutive size belies its scientific importance. The two-legged plant-eater stood no higher than an adult human's knee and weighed only 40 kilograms, measurements similar to a German shepherd or other large-breed canine. Evans, however, said the animal has become an important puzzle piece for those committed to mapping out the rise and fall of the dinosaur. COMING UP David Evans talks to Quirks & Quarks on Saturday, May 11 at noon on CBC Radio One. "We actually don't have a very good record of dinosaurs from North America, or even the world, as a whole through this interval...around 85 million years ago," Evans said in a telephone interview. "So we went to the areas that exposed the sediments trying to find the fossils that would help fill in that gap in our knowledge." Researchers were guided in their quest by an early discovery made by museum staff in the late 1940's, Evans said. Researchers unearthed a partial fossil of a dinosaur featuring a thick dome of solid bone over its eyes in the Milk River formation of southern Alberta, but found the sample had deteriorated too far to be of much use. Present-day researchers had better luck in 2008 when they came across a nearly perfectly preserved fossil on the land of a southern Alberta cattle rancher. Evans said he was stunned to discover an intact specimen, explaining scientists are rarely afforded the chance to study smaller dinosaur skeletons. "The species representation of small animals is generally poorer than large animals because the bones of small ones are more susceptible to carnivores and weathering processes," he said. "The bones of small animals tend to get destroyed before they enter the fossil record." Dome helped preserve fossil The skeletal characteristic that helped preserve the fossil was ultimately the one that gave the species its name. Acrotholus is derived from the Greek words for "high dome" and describe the 10-centimetre bone mass on the animal's head. This pile of rocks in the Milk River Formation of southern Alberta marks the exact spot where the most complete specimen of Acrotholus was found. (David Evans/ROM) The distinctive skull formation, which places Acrotholus within a group of dinosaurs known as pachycephalosaurs, also opened the door to a wider investigation of dinosaur diversity, Evans said. He and his team examined all 600 of the pachycephalosaur specimens discovered to date in order to determine how many subspecies there were within that group. The team concluded there were at least 16 varieties of animals featuring the distinctive dome, including Acrotholus. Evans said the findings challenge stereotypical images of dinosaurs as mammoth creatures running roughshod over all smaller species. The study of pachycephalosaurs alone, he said, suggests the dinosaur population was more diverse and complex than conventional wisdom suggests. "The only reason we know that pachycephalosaurs were so diverse is because of these domes which seem to be preferentially preserved in the fossil record," he said. "And so if other dinosaur groups are anything like pachycephalosaurs, they were probably a lot more diverse too. This has implications for how you reconstruct the diversity of particular dinosaur communities through time." An exhibit featuring the Acrotholus fossils will go on display at the Royal Ontario Museum later this month. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Rare dinosaur fossil bed reveals growth inside eggs COMING UP: David Evans talks to Quirks & Quarks May 11 at noon on CBC Radio One External Links Summary of paper in Nature Communications Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca