https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/oceans-may-pause-warming-of-earth-s-surface-1.1091217
Oceans may pause warming of Earth's surface | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Oceans may pause warming of Earth's surface Social Sharing Technology & Science Oceans may pause warming of Earth's surface Deep areas of Earth's oceans may absorb enough heat that warming of the surface pauses for as long as a decade, a new study has found. Social Sharing Posted: Sep 19, 2011 8:49 AM ET | Last Updated: September 19, 2011 Deep areas of Earth's oceans may absorb enough heat that warming of the surface pauses for as long as a decade, a new study has found. The joint U.S. and Australian study shows that hiatus periods, when the warming of Earth's surface slows, may be a relatively common phenomenon linked to La Niña-like conditions. While excess energy entering our climate system might not always warm the surface, the total amount of heat is still increasing, the researchers report in the latest issue of Nature Climate Change. "In our model we found that most of the heat is going into the deep ocean at those times when the net temperature of the surface is flat," said study co-author Julie Arblaster, senior research scientist at the Bureau of Meteorology. "These hiatus periods, or slow down periods, can happen from time to time even when there's additional energy coming into the system," says Arblaster. The study illustrates one reason why global temperatures do not simply rise in a straight line, says lead author Gerald Meehl from the National Center for Atmospheric Research. "We will see global warming go through hiatus periods in the future, however, these periods would likely last only about a decade or so, and warming would then resume," said Meehl. The latest hiatus was during the decade of 2000-2009, when the average surface temperature of the Earth showed little increase, and even a slight decrease. At the same time, measurements of the energy entering and leaving the top of the atmosphere found a total of roughly one watt per metre square was retained in Earth's climate system. Climate models To find out where the heat was going, the researchers ran simulations using climate system models able to portray complex interactions within the environment. After supercomputers ploughed through the calculations, they found eight hiatus periods across the coming century to further investigate. The simulations showed that during hiatus decades ocean temperatures above 300 metres were cooler than at other times, but waters below 300 metres warmed by around 18 per cent more than at other times. A regional pattern appeared in the simulations, which was similar to what we observe in La Niña events — lower sea surface temperatures in the tropical Pacific, and warmer temperatures in the oceans 35 degrees north and south of the equator. These patterns are related to changes in ocean circulation, said Arblaster. "We found that heat is moving down due to strengthened circulation in the Pacific Ocean and weakened circulation in the North Atlantic." As circulation decreases in the North Atlantic, less cooler water, such as from melted sea ice enters the deep sea, explains Arblaster. "But more study is needed to see what leads to such changes [in ocean circulation] occurring." Ming Feng, an oceanographer from the CSIRO who was not involved in the study, said it is "interesting research." "This is a modelling exercise that shows a plausible explanation for why there is a cooling effect when heat is still entering the system," Ming said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca