https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/small-modular-reactors-nuclear-smr-1.5187469
'The next wave of innovation': Nuclear reactors of the future are small and modular | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news 'The next wave of innovation': Nuclear reactors of the future are small and modular Social Sharing Technology & Science·CBC EXPLAINS 'The next wave of innovation': Nuclear reactors of the future are small and modular The federal government thinks small modular reactors (SMR) that generate nuclear power will play a critical role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and moving Canada toward a low-carbon future. Here’s what you need to know about them. Social Sharing The pros and cons of small modular reactors and where we could see them generating nuclear power Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Jun 25, 2019 4:00 AM ET | Last Updated: July 4, 2019 comments An illustration shows a NuScale Power module on a truck. NuScale is one of the small modular reactor companies whose designs are going through pre-licensing approval with Canada's nuclear regulator. Many are designed to be small enough to transport by truck or by shipping container. (NuScale Power) This story is part of a CBC News series entitled In Our Backyard, which looks at the effects climate change is having in Canada, from extreme weather events to how it's reshaping our economy. The devastating impacts of climate change caused by burning fossil fuels are forcing countries around the world to look for zero-emissions alternatives for generating electricity. One such alternative is nuclear energy, and the International Energy Agency — a group focused on energy security, development and environmental sustainability for 30-member countries — says the transition to a cleaner energy system will be drastically harder without it. Canada's government appears to be on board, saying nuclear innovation plays a "critical role" in reducing greenhouse gas emissions as Canada moves toward a low-carbon future. While husky Candu reactors have powered some Canadian communities for decades, governments are now eyeing technology of a different scale. The federal government describes small modular reactors (SMR), as the "next wave of innovation" in nuclear energy technology and an "important technology opportunity for Canada." Here's what you need to know about them. What's a small modular reactor? Traditional nuclear reactors used in Canada can typically generate about 800 megawatts of electricity, or about enough to power about 600,000 homes at once (assuming that 1 megawatt can power about 750 homes). The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the UN organization for nuclear co-operation, considers a nuclear reactor to be "small" if it generates under 300 megawatts. Designs for small reactors ranging from just 3 megawatts to 300 megawatts have been submitted to Canada's nuclear regulator, the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission, for review as part of a pre-licensing process. CLIMATE CHANGE 'It's the future': How going small may fuel nuclear power's comeback Small nuclear reactors could make Alberta's oilsands cleaner, industry experts say Such reactors are considered "modular" because they're designed to work either independently or as modules in a bigger complex (as is already the case with traditional, larger reactors at most Canadian nuclear power plants.) A power plant could be expanded incrementally by adding additional modules. Decline in nuclear power threatens global climate goals, IEA says Modules are generally designed to be small enough to make in a factory and be transported easily — for example, via a standard shipping container. How do nuclear reactors generate electricity? Nuclear reactors of all sizes are powered by nuclear fission — the process of splitting atoms of nuclear fuel, typically uranium, into smaller atoms. That generates heat. In thermal power plants, the heat turns water into steam, and the steam pushes turbines that generate electricity. That part of the process is the same whether the heat is generated by nuclear power, burning fossil fuels such as coal or natural gas, or even concentrated solar energy. Carbon dioxide emissions for different kinds of fuels: coal, heavy fuel oil, diesel, natural gas, biomass, solar, wind, hydro and nuclear. (CBC News) What are the advantages of SMRs over traditional nuclear power plants? Canada's government says SMRs are designed to have lower upfront capital costs and enhanced safety features compared to traditional reactors. Because of their small size, most could be completely built in a factory and installed module by module, making construction quicker, more efficient and theoretically cheaper, according to the World Nuclear Association, which represents the nuclear industry. Upfront costs, especially, would be lower, since modules could be added as needed instead of being paid for all at once. Another feature that is predicted to lower the cost is that it's easier to cool SMRs because of their larger surface area-to-volume ratio. That means their safety systems don't need to be as complex. Most can rely on "passive" built-in safety features in the event of a malfunction, rather than special systems that need to be activated. INTERACTIVE | What climate change looks like in Canada Sign up for CBC's environmental newsletter, What on Earth? Are there other differences between SMRs and traditional nuclear power plants? Some SMR designs are effectively scaled-down versions of traditional nuclear reactors, but some also incorporate next-generation nuclear technologies and designs. For example: Molten salt reactors that use molten salt — salt that has melted into a liquid at high temperatures — instead of water as a coolant and dissolve the fuel in the salt. That allows them to operate at regular atmospheric pressure instead of the high pressure that traditional reactors operate at. Liquid metal fast reactors use liquid sodium or lead as a coolant. Both molten salt and liquid metal fast reactors can reuse and consume fuel from other reactors. High-temperature gas reactors use an inert gas such as helium as a coolant and can operate at a higher temperature, making them more efficient. What could SMRs be used for? In Canada, there are three main areas where SMRs could be used: Traditional, on-grid power generation, especially in provinces looking for zero-emissions replacements for CO2-emitting coal plants. Remote communities that currently rely on polluting diesel generation. Resource extraction sites, such as mining and oil and gas. What challenges do SMRs face before they're built? While small modular reactors should theoretically be cheaper than traditional reactors, their actual costs won't be known until some designs are actually built and operating, noted Scott Montgomery, an affiliate faculty member at the University of Washington, who lectures and writes about global energy, in an article in The Conversation last June. He added that while SMRs are designed to produce less nuclear waste than larger reactors, disposal remains an issue. The World Nuclear Association says licensing costs for an SMR are "potentially a challenge" as they aren't necessarily cheaper than they are for a large reactor. However, the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC) notes that licensing costs are a small part of the cost of developing the technology, and include many activities that would have to occur anyway to show the technology is reliable and safe. Climate Change Canadians are worried about climate change, but many don't want to pay taxes to fight it: Poll CLIMATE CHANGE In our backyard: What climate change in Canada looks like Canada doesn't yet have a permanent nuclear waste repository, although the Nuclear Waste Management Organization is currently working to select a site. How close are SMRs to operating in Canada? Not that close. Natural Resources Canada released an "SMR roadmap" in November, with a series of recommendations about regulation readiness and waste management for SMRs. In Canada, about a dozen companies are currently in pre-licensing with the CNSC, which is reviewing their designs. Ultra Safe Nuclear's Micro Modular Reactor Energy System is designed to fit in a standard shipping container. The company is partnering with Global First Power and Ontario Power Generation, which are in talks with AECL and CNSC about preparing a site for a reactor at the Chalk River Laboratories. (Ultra Safe Nuclear) The furthest project ahead is one involving Global First Power, in partnership with Ontario Power Generation and Ultra Safe Nuclear Corp. In April, it began discussions with the Crown corporation Atomic Energy of Canada Ltd. (AECL) and the CNSC about preparing a site for a reactor at AECL's Chalk River Laboratories. There have been plans to have an SMR demonstration plant built at an AECL site by 2026. According to the IAEA, there are currently four SMRs in advanced stages of construction in Argentina, China and Russia. Editor's Note Why CBC News is doing a series on climate change CBC EXPLAINS What is climate change? Clarifications This story has been clarified to say that while the World Nuclear Association lists licensing costs as a challenge, the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission notes licensing costs are a small part of the cost of developing the technology itself, and include many factors that would need to occur regardless to show the technology is reliable and safe. Jul 04, 2019 11:41 AM ET Corrections An earlier version of this story said designs for small reactors had been submitted to Canada's nuclear regulator for approval. In fact, they have been submitted for review as part of a pre-licensing process that does not approve designs per se, but merely provides feedback on how well the design is addressing Canadian requirements early in the development process. Jul 04, 2019 10:49 AM ET About the Author Emily Chung Science and Technology Writer Emily Chung covers science and technology for CBC News. She has previously worked as a digital journalist for CBC Ottawa and as an occasional producer at CBC's Quirks & Quarks. She has a PhD in chemistry. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories CLIMATE CHANGE 'It's the future': How going small may fuel nuclear power's comeback Decline in nuclear power threatens global climate goals, IEA says Small nuclear reactors could make Alberta's oilsands cleaner, industry experts suggest Sask. considering small nuclear reactors to lower carbon emissions Climate Change Canadians are worried about climate change, but many don't want to pay taxes to fight it: Poll CLIMATE CHANGE In our backyard: What climate change in Canada looks like Editor's Note Why CBC News is doing a series on climate change CBC EXPLAINS What is climate change? Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca