http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/rising-sea-levels-could-make-florida-residents-climate-refugees-1.2871710
Rising sea levels could make Florida residents 'climate refugees' | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Rising sea levels could make Florida residents 'climate refugees' Social Sharing Technology & Science Rising sea levels could make Florida residents 'climate refugees' The 'monster' in climate change, says a professor of geological sciences, is a warming ocean - and that spells trouble for low-lying Florida. Social Sharing 3.5 million Canadians travel to the sunshine state every year Chris Wodskou · CBC News · Posted: Dec 14, 2014 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: December 14, 2014 Florida's beaches are one of its biggest draws, but one expert says that politicians and residents in the sunshine state aren't taking the threat of rising sea levels seriously enough. (Devon Ravine/Northwest Florida Daily/Associated Press) comments Florida’s vulnerability to the effects of climate change doesn’t seem at first blush to be a Canadian issue. But every year, some 3.5 million Canadians travel to the sunshine state. What’s more, about half a million Canadians own property in Florida, much of it at risk from rising sea levels. Also this week on The Sunday Edition: A Christmas Concert - Michael's Essay: An account of when Michael's son played in the Grade Three Recorder Ensemble. Jokes about cats at Christmas: A closer look at "Feline Festivus," a fundraiser for Toronto's Humane Society and the Annex Cat Rescue. Bob Bossin's dad, aka Davy the Punk: Bob Bossin, the folk singer and founder of Stringband, went on a journey in search of his father. A worn menorah tells a remarkable, true story: The tale of a Christian family's courage and a Jewish family's escape in the darkest of times. A lot of that property, particularly if it’s situated along one of the coveted stretches of Miami’s fabled beaches, could well be worthless and literally underwater in a few decades, says Harold Wanless, the chair of the department of Geological Sciences at the University of Miami. His word for the future of Miami and much south Florida? Doomed. The “monster” in climate change, as Wanless sees it, is a warming ocean. Sea levels will rise because water expands as it gets warmer, and oceans are taking up vast amounts of heat produced by global warming. Warmer water is also driving the accelerated melting of the vast ice sheets covering Greenland and Antarctica. Wanless says a two-metre rise in sea level by 2100 is likely, but says it’s also plausible it could be as much as five metres by the end of the century, and it will continue rising for centuries after that. The threat of rising sea levels As Wanless points out, the last time atmospheric carbon dioxide levels were as high as they are now, sea level was more than 20 metres higher. That means big trouble for the low-lying state of Florida. “Only nine percent of Miami-Dade County is greater than 10 feet above sea level,” Wanless told Michael Enright, host of CBC Radio's The Sunday Edition. “Only three percent of it is greater than 12 feet above sea level at normal high tide. And that, as sea level rises, makes us increasingly vulnerable, not only to inundation and sluggish drainage after rainfall, but also from exponentially accelerating danger from storm surges from hurricanes.” Professor Harold Wanless says that properties on Miami’s fabled beaches could well be underwater in a few decades. (Jim Tiller/Daytona Beach News-Journal/Associated Press) Half a metre of sea level rise, which Wanless says will probably happen by mid-century, will mean Miami will lose its freshwater resources. Once the sea level reaches a metre higher, all of South Florida’s infrastructure – roads, sewers, water treatment facilities, electricity, hospitals, schools – “will have to be totally redone.” Wanless argues that the infrastructure could either become too costly or impossible to adapt, upgrade or replace. He raises the spectre of South Floridians being forced to leave the state like a latter-day version of the Okies who fled the Dust Bowl in the 1930s. “We will become climate refugees," he says. 'Climate refugees' It’s the lack of planning or science-informed foresight in South Florida that Wanless finds most befuddling. Residents and governments alike are in denial, he says, about the scope of the problem. He notes that the Miami waterfront is lined with construction cranes erecting condo towers that may be uninhabitable in a few decades, and there are even plans to build two new nuclear power plants on the coast south of Miami. His greatest frustration is with state politicians who are either dismissive of climate science or ignore the risk of sea level rise. North Carolina recently passed legislation that makes it illegal to take scientific sea level projections into account when planning for coastal development. “There are so many dimensions of climate change that we have to plan for, and if we don’t, we’re gonna leave families and businesses in ashes.” Still, Wanless has not lost hope that action will be taken before it’s too late. “I’ve heard that humans are not very good at planning for things, but we’re great at fixing things we’ve screwed up, and I hope we realize pretty soon that we’ve screwed up. “We can win challenging world wars and we can do a lot of things when we get our mind around it. The problem is that we are not facing up to the inconvenience that we have to go through to solve this." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories UN climate negotiators pass watered-down deal in Lima 2014 on track to be hottest year on record: UN agency UN climate change report offers stark warnings, hope How big business can help fight climate change: Bob McDonald Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca