http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/dinosaur-researchers-reveal-how-males-wooed-mates-1.3028146
Dinosaur researchers reveal how males wooed mates | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Dinosaur researchers reveal how males wooed mates Social Sharing Technology & Science Dinosaur researchers reveal how males wooed mates Romeo and Juliet, two dinosaurs that died tragically side by side millions of years ago, are helping reveal what dinosaur love looked like back in the day. Social Sharing Alberta study shows oviraptor male's tail was built to flash his feathers and strut his stuff CBC News · Posted: Apr 10, 2015 1:56 PM ET | Last Updated: April 13, 2015 Scott Persons, seen here with the fossil of Juliet, examined both her and Romeo to see if the two skeletons had any features to support fanning and waving their tails in mating displays. (University of Alberta) comments Romeo and Juliet, two dinosaurs that died tragically side by side millions of years ago, are helping reveal what dinosaur love looked like back in the day. The fossils of the two turkey-sized oviraptors, nicknamed Romeo and Juliet, lay buried together in the Gobi Desert of Mongolia for 75 million years until being uncovered by paleontologists. "What we think happened is that these two dinosaurs were nestled together during a downpour of rain and they were trying to find shelter by the side of a great big sand dune," said Scott Persons, a PhD candidate at the University of Alberta who studied the fossils. The sand dune likely collapsed and buried them alive very quickly and deeply, leaving some well-preserved fossils for paleontologists to find, Persons told CBC's Quirks & Quarks during an interview that aired Saturday. A pair of oviraptors found together help determine differences between male and female in this species. 8:28 Hear the full interview with Scott Persons on Quirks & Quarks Oviraptors are distantly related to birds, but couldn't fly. Specimens in China have been found with feathers, including some with beautiful light and dark markings. Some specimens also had fused tail bones similar to those used by birds such as peacocks to support large fans of feathers. 'I imagine Romeo in a courtship dance, approaching Juliette, probably right up front, possibly flashing some of the feathers that it also has on its arms, and then waving that tail,' researcher Scott Persons told CBC's Quirks & Quarks. (Sydney Mohr/University of Alberta) That led Persons and his colleagues to propose that the oviraptor feathers weren't for flying, but were fanned out like the tails of male turkeys or peacocks as part of courtship displays and dances. 'Elegant' dinosaurs may have shaken their tail feathers Dinosaur feathers likely for sex, not flying If that were the case, you'd expect to find bigger feathers on males than females — and bigger tail muscles to support them. So Persons and his colleagues examined the tails of Romeo and Juliet to see if they could find any evidence of that. What they found was that based on the shape of their bones, oviraptor tails had very large muscles for swinging their tails up and down and from side to side. Romeo, Juliet had different tail bones And even though Romeo and Juliet appeared to be about the same size and age, Romeo's tail bones were shaped quite differently from Juliet's. Romeo's and Juliet's tailbones were shaped differently, suggesting that Romeo had larger muscles for swinging his tail from side-to-side. (University of Alberta) "What this tells us is that Romeo has got a tail that's got even larger muscles responsible for swinging it from side to side," Persons said. That would have made it possible for him to arch and curve his tail in impressive ways. "I imagine Romeo in a courtship dance, approaching Juliette, probably right up front, possibly flashing some of the feathers that it also has on its arms, and then waving that tail, maybe raising it up high … and then swishing the tail side to side, but posing and really strutting its stuff." Dinosaur feathers found in Alberta amber How dinosaurs shrank into birds Persons says the discovery may help identify other oviraptors as male or female in different contexts. For example, one skeleton has been found over a nest of eggs. An examination of its tail may reveal whether the father or the mother was keeping those eggs warm, offering new clues about the social lives of those dinosaurs. It may also reveal where feathers came from, since oviraptors didn't fly and aren't that closely related to the dinosaurs that gave rise to birds, Persons added. "This tells us that in fact complex feathers first originated not for flight or for gliding, but for socials or sexual displays." The findings, coauthored by Gregory Funston and Philip Currie at the University of Alberta and Mark Norell at the American Museum of Natural History, were published in the journal Scientific Reports. Read a summary of the paper CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Scott Persons on Quirks & Quarks Feathers originated as dinosaur whiskers, U of A experts speculate 'Elegant' dinosaurs may have shaken their tail feathers Dinosaur feathers likely for sex, not flying Feathered plant-eating dinosaur found How dinosaurs shrank into birds External Links Summary of the paper in Scientific Reports University of Alberta news release Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca