http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/story/2010/10/07/honeybees-virus-study.html
Honeybees killed by virus, fungus combo: study | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Honeybees killed by virus, fungus combo: study Social Sharing Technology & Science Honeybees killed by virus, fungus combo: study The mass deaths of honey-bee colonies in the U.S. may be caused by a lethal combination of fungi and viruses, suggests new research. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Oct 07, 2010 2:42 PM ET | Last Updated: October 7, 2010 The mass deaths of honey-bee colonies in the U.S. may be caused by a lethal combination of fungi and viruses, suggests new research. Researchers, predominantly from the University of Montana, have identified three viruses — Varroa destructor-1, Kakugo and an invertebrate iridescent virus — in dead honeybees felled by what is known as colony collapse disorder. They also found these bees were infected with two fungi — Nosema apis and Nosema ceranae. Colony collapse disorder involves the sudden death of a large number of bees that leave the hive and disappear, reducing the colony to a handful of bees or no bees at all. The phenomenon has been occurring with increasing regularity since 2006, particularly in the U.S. "In 2010, colony collapse disorder again devastated honey bee colonies in the U.S.A., indicating that the problem is neither diminishing nor has it been resolved," write the authors. They found the viruses and fungi routinely showed up in bees that had succumbed to the disorder while bees from colonies in Montana and Australia that were not affected by CCD were not infected. The presence of both fungi and viruses appeared to be a much more lethal mix than an infection with one virus or fungus. The fungi appeared to cause tumour-like structures and cell death in the bees. The research builds on earlier studies that made the connection between fungi and the bees' deaths. In 2007, Ontario Beekeepers' Association experts collected about 446 bee samples from 25 keepers and discovered that each one contained Nosema apis, a single-celled protozoan that affects the bees' digestive systems. More than half of the samples had Nosema ceranae. For this study, researchers collected between 200 and 500 samples from each of nine colonies, representing the three most populous, three failing and three collapsed colonies. This was done between December 2006 and April 2010. The study is published in the Oct. 6 issue of the scientific journal Public Library of Science One. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Parasite behind European honeybee colony collapse, researchers say Pesticide failure blamed for declining bee population Why are bees dying? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca