https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/endangered-orangutans-released-into-the-wild-1.3908663
Endangered orangutans released into the wild | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Endangered orangutans released into the wild Social Sharing Technology & Science Endangered orangutans released into the wild Six orangutans were returned into the wild raising hope of increasing the population of these critically endangered animals. Social Sharing Part of an effort by the Borneo Orangutan Survival Foundation Thomson Reuters · Posted: Dec 22, 2016 2:37 PM ET | Last Updated: December 22, 2016 The Borneo Orangutan Survival Foundation released six orangutans into the wild earlier this month. (FILE/Bay Ismoyo/AFP/Getty) Six orangutans were returned into the wild on December 14, 2016, raising hope of increasing the population of these "critically endangered" animals. The park released a video of the release on Thursday. The group of endangered Bornean orangutans, consisting of two males and four females — two of them a pair of mother and infant — were released at Kehje Sewen Forest, an 86,450-hectare rainforest in East Kalimantan province. The forest is managed as an Ecosystem Restoration Concession (ERC) area by Borneo Orangutan Survival Foundation (BOSF), an Indonesian non-profit organization dedicated to the conservation of Bornean orangutans, and they often work with government and the local communities. With this release, the total number of orangutans BOSF has returned to the wild in Central and East Kalimantan since 2012 is 251. The orangutans were given and anaesthetic before the long 12-hour journey, and were placed in individual cages on the back of trucks. Orangutans, which means "person of the forest" in Malay, are listed as critically endangered animals by IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. There are only about 60,000 left in the wild, down from around 230,000 a century ago, according to BOSF. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links IUCN Red List Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca