https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/a-case-for-climate-engineering-1.2422472
A case for climate engineering | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news A case for climate engineering Social Sharing Technology & Science·Audio A case for climate engineering The warming caused by greenhouse gas pollution could theoretically be offset by intentionally pumping a different kind of climate-altering pollution into the atmosphere. Quirks & Quarks spoke to Canadian scientist David Keith about whether that’s something we should consider. Social Sharing New book makes case for intentionally using pollution to cool the Earth CBC News · Posted: Nov 11, 2013 12:31 PM ET | Last Updated: November 11, 2013 comments The warming caused by greenhouse gas pollution could theoretically be offset by intentionally pumping a different kind of climate-altering pollution into the atmosphere. It’s an idea we should be researching seriously, says Canadian scientist David Keith, author of the new book A Case for Climate Engineering. Using such climate engineering or geoengineering techniques over the next half century could significantly reduce the rate of climate change temporarily, he told CBC’s Quirks & Quarks Saturday. “That would have real benefits in reducing the harm caused by CO2 — harm caused to vulnerable people who will see crops fail from heat stress, for example, or vulnerable ecosystems like the High Arctic of Canada,” said Keith, a professor of public policy and applied physics and engineering at Harvard University. On the other hand, he said, climate engineering is also “a Band-Aid of the most ugly kind," and critics argue it could encourage the world to emit more carbon dioxide pollution and discourage cuts to greenhouse gas emissions. Keith spoke to Quirks & Quarks host Bob McDonald about the science behind climate engineering technology, the risks and benefits of different forms of the technology, the arguments for and against using climate engineering, what still needs to be done before it could be deployed, and why he thinks we should still consider this technology despite the risks. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Audio 'Planet hacking' to control climate sparks controversy Greenhouse gas levels hit new record high External Links A Case for Climate Engineering (MIT Press) Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca