https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/bag-like-creature-human-ancestor-1.3955434
Tiny, bag-like fossil creature could be early human ancestor | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Tiny, bag-like fossil creature could be early human ancestor Social Sharing Technology & Science Tiny, bag-like fossil creature could be early human ancestor Scientists have discovered a tiny prehistoric creature that lived 540 million years ago and could be an ancient ancestor of ours. Social Sharing Smaller than a grain of rice, creature lived 540 million years ago Nicole Mortillaro · CBC News · Posted: Jan 30, 2017 11:00 AM ET | Last Updated: January 31, 2017 This artist's reconstruction of Saccorhytus coronarius, based on the original fossil finds, depicts the ancient creature that lived 540 million years ago. Researchers believe this tiny new species could be related to humans. (S. Conway Morris/Jian Han) Scientists have discovered a tiny, bag-like prehistoric creature that lived 540 million years ago and could be an ancient ancestor of ours. The prehistoric creature, Saccorhytus, was discovered in microfossils found in rock in Shaanxi province in central China. Feathered dinosaur tail found trapped in amber 'A cross between a hallucinogenic dream and your worst nightmare': Rare dinosaur prints found in B.C. It's believed that this new species is the most primitive example of a deuterostome, a category in biology that includes many sub-groups, including vertebrates such as ourselves. "Frankly, it doesn't look like anything very exciting; it looks like a tiny dot, a bit smaller than a grain of rice. But in the electron microscope, it's just eye-popping," Simon Conway Morris, a professor and fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge, who authored the paper, told CBC News. Clues linking to humans The fossils, which were exquisitely preserved, were found in limestone — three tonnes of it — that was broken down into very small pieces allowing researchers to study them under electron microscopes. "The sheer fidelity of the preservation, the quality of the preservation is astonishing," Morris said. An electronic microscope provides this view of Saccorhytus. (Jian Han/Northwest University, China ) Saccorhytus — which means "wrinkled bag" — was just about one millimetre in size with an elliptical body and large mouth. One of the things that deuterostomes share is gill slits, and the researchers found that the Saccorhytus had small conical features believed to be the precursors to gills. That's where excess water — and possibly waste — was expelled. The researchers couldn't find any sign the creature had an anus. The molecular clock Scientists look at genetic information of related species to see when they diverged. They believe that the process occurs in a clock-like fashion. However, there isn't much evidence for the time period before the Saccorhytus. The finding provides some support to the theory of the molecular clock: evidence of creatures that existed earlier and were smaller than the Saccorhytus may never be found. Morris said this discovery doesn't mean they've found our earliest human ancestor, but it is still exciting. "This is our best glimpse of what we would regard as not the first deuterostome but one of the early examples," he said. The findings were published in the journal Nature. About the Author Nicole Mortillaro Senior Reporter, Science Nicole has an avid interest in all things science. As an amateur astronomer, Nicole can be found looking up at the night sky appreciating the marvels of our universe. She is the editor of the Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada and the author of several books. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Toothless dinosaur find could provide clues into evolution of bird beaks Cone-shaped sea creatures finally get place on evolutionary tree New species of prehistoric palm discovered in Canada Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca