https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/atlantis-takes-hold-of-hubble-telescope-1.807309
Atlantis takes hold of Hubble telescope | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Atlantis takes hold of Hubble telescope Social Sharing Technology & Science Atlantis takes hold of Hubble telescope The space shuttle Atlantis has grabbed hold of the Hubble Space Telescope, the first step in making a series of repairs to the 19-year-old orbiting observatory. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: May 13, 2009 12:44 PM ET | Last Updated: May 13, 2009 The space shuttle Atlantis has grabbed hold of the Hubble Space Telescope, the first step in making a series of repairs to the 19-year-old orbiting observatory. Atlantis grappled the telescope with its Canadarm robotic arm at 1:14 p.m. ET and began the slow process of bringing it to the shuttle's cargo bay, as both shuttle and telescope orbit the Earth at an altitude of about 560 kilometres. Taking hold of Hubble should take just under two hours, NASA said Wednesday. Atlantis's seven-person crew can then begin a series of repairs, replacing batteries, gyroscopes, cameras and a data-handling unit and fixing other equipment on the telescope, which has had four previous repairs but none since 2002. Hubble has provided spectacular imagery and helped astronomers gain new insight into black holes, star formation and the early universe. But several of its instruments have failed or are in need of an upgrade. NASA hopes the mission will keep Hubble running another five to 10 years. Atlantis launched from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida on Monday and spent Tuesday in orbit as it caught up to Hubble. During that time, the shuttle crew inspected the shuttle's heat shield, and discovered a few "dings" in tiles that will continue to be analyzed, NASA said. Flight director Tony Ceccacci said at first glance, the damage found during the inspection appeared to be minor and likely not a concern, but they will give them a closer look as a safety precaution. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Atlantis in orbit en route to repair Hubble Hubble to get final fix in complex 11-day mission Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca