https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/arctic-sea-ice-volume-up-50-1.2465952
Arctic sea ice volume up 50% | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Arctic sea ice volume up 50% Social Sharing Technology & Science Arctic sea ice volume up 50% Sea ice isn't just covering more of the Arctic Ocean this year - it's also thicker, boosting sea ice volumes by 50 per cent, satellite measurements show. Social Sharing But 2013 volume still among lowest of past 30 years, study finds CBC News · Posted: Dec 16, 2013 12:19 PM ET | Last Updated: December 16, 2013 comments The volume of sea ice in the Arctic is 50 per cent higher than it was last fall, satellite measurements show. In October 2013, the European Space Agency satellite CryoSat measured 9,000 cubic kilometres of sea ice on the Arctic Ocean, said an ESA news release Monday. At the same time of year in 2012, it measured just 6,000 cubic kilometres — a record low. The satellite, launched in 2010, is designed to measure sea ice thickness across the Arctic Ocean, allowing scientists to monitor changes in volume and not just surface coverage. Despite the short-term rebound, sea ice volumes remain low compared to historical averages, scientists say. Ice floes float in Baffin Bay between Canada and Greenland in 2008. Arctic sea ice cover has declined 40 per cent since the late 1970s, despite a surprising bounce-back in 2013. (Jonathan Hayward/Canadian Press) “It’s estimated that there was around 20,000 cubic kilometres of Arctic sea ice each October in the early 1980s, and so today’s minimum still ranks among the lowest of the past 30 years,” said Andrew Shepherd, a co-author of the study, in a statement. Shepherd, who is a researcher at University College London, was part of a team that presented the study last week at the American Geophysical Union's annual meeting in San Francisco. Both the surface coverage and volume of Arctic sea ice are monitored by scientists as climate indicators. In September, the U.S. National Snow and Ice Data Centre reported that Arctic ice cover at its summer minimum this year was 5.1 million square kilometres. That was also up 50 per cent from last year's record low, but the sixth lowest on record. The seven lowest levels have all been recorded in the last seven years. Coverage vs. volume Scientists had noticed that generally, since CryoSat was launched in 2010, Arctic sea ice volumes haven't varied as much from year-to-year as sea ice coverage. Because of that, they hadn't expected an increase in volume comparable to the increase in surface coverage, said Rachel Tilling, lead author of the new study, in a statement. "But it has been, and the reason is related to the amount of multi-year ice in the Arctic,” added Tilling, a researcher at the U.K.'s Centre for Polar Observation and Modelling. Multi-year ice survives more than one summer without melting and is considered an indicator of "healthy" Arctic sea ice cover, the ESA reported. About 90 per cent of the increase in sea ice volume this year is from the growth of multi-year ice, which now averages about 20 per cent or 30 centimetres thicker than last year, the release said. Last week, the NOAA issued its annual Arctic report card, which found that Arctic temperatures in 2013 were cooler compared to the past six years, although they remained warm compared to the 20th century. "The Arctic caught a break, if you will, in 2013," said Martin Jefferies, the University of Alaska geophysicist who edited the report card, at the AGU conference. "But one year doesn't change the long-term trend toward a warmer Arctic." With a file from The Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Arctic ice level rebounds from record 2012 low Arctic sea ice levels hit record low Arctic sea ice loss could threaten even land animals Melting Arctic ice called 'economic time bomb' Video Arctic sea ice melts to record low External Links ESA news release NSIDC: Arctic sea ice reaches lowest extent for 2013 Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca