http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/story/2011/11/18/environment-extreme-weather-damages-ipcc.html
Extreme weather takes growing toll | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Extreme weather takes growing toll Social Sharing Technology & Science Extreme weather takes growing toll Deaths and damages from extreme weather and climate-related disasters are increasing significantly, but climate change isn't the main culprit, says a new report by the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Nov 18, 2011 3:33 PM ET | Last Updated: November 18, 2011 A woman sits outside her home along a flooded streetin Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., in October. Absolute economic losses due to extreme weather are higher in developed countries, but deaths and economic losses as a proportion of the GDP are far higher in developing nations. (J Pat Carter/Associated Press) Deaths and damages from extreme weather and climate-related disasters are increasing significantly, but climate change isn't the main culprit, says a new report by the IPCC. "The trend of losses is rising and rising rather rapidly," said Paul Kovacs, executive director of the Toronto-based Institute for Catastrophic Loss Reduction and a co-author of the report, at a news conference Friday. However, the main factors behind the mounting losses are socioeconomic, says the 29-page summary report released by the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change aimed at policy-makers. Is this crazy weather caused by climate change? Francis Zwiers, a University of Victoria statistician who co-authored the new report, said that is a frequently asked question after a major rainfall and flood or other extreme weather event. It remains very difficult to answer for any individual incident, he said. However, he said, "We probably have not observed to date any extremes that would not have been possible…without human influence on the climate." "There are more people, we have more things," Kovacs said. "We can't exclude the role of climate change, but it is not the primary driver." Nevertheless, the summary of the Special Report on Managing the Risks of Extreme Events and Disasters to Advance Climate Change Adaptation recommends adaptation to climate change and disaster risk management as ways to manage the risks of climate extremes and disasters. The full report will be released in February 2012. It is being drafted in response to the IPCC's 2007 findings that increased heat waves and heavy precipitation events were very likely and increases in droughts, tropical cyclones, and sea levels were likely as the climate changes. Extreme weather-related losses varied widely among different regions and over different years, the IPCC reported Friday. Absolute economic losses were higher in developed countries such as Canada, but deaths and economic losses as a proportion of the GDP are far higher in developing nations. "This is a big issue around the world, but it is particularly hitting hard in poor countries," Kovacs said, noting that the vast majority of weather-related fatalities — about 95 per cent — take place in the poorest nations. While richer nations set aside funds in advance in the form of insurance to prepare for natural disasters, which can be mobilized quickly following the disaster, poorer countries must rely on aid that arrives in a very ad-hoc way, Kovacs said. Nations are currently discussing how to make disaster recovery resources such as insurance available to other parts of the world, he added. While the growing toll of extreme weather so far may not be primarily climate-driven, the report found that it is likely climate change is driving certain types of extreme weather: An overall increase in the number of warm days and a decrease in cold days globally, and an increase in the length and number of heat waves in many regions. More heavy precipitation events in some regions, which statistics show are more common than regions where such events have decreased. Implications for Canada Xuebin Zhang, an Environment Canada research scientist who also co-authored the report, said that means in Canada: The maximum temperature in a given 20-year period will likely increase by two to four degrees by the end of the 21st century. An amount of precipitation falling in one day that is so extreme it is currently seen only once in 20 years will likely be seen once every five or 10 years by the end of the 21st century. Gordon McBean, director of policy studies at the Institute for Catastrophic Loss Reduction and other co-author of the report, said in Canada, infrastructure has been designed by using old weather statistics to predict the level of extreme one-day rainfall, for example, that can be expected once in 100 years. Now, he said, "we're having them happening obviously much more often than 1 in 100 years." He said cities need to have a new look at their building codes, land use planning and the design of infrastructure such as sewer systems. Kovacs agreed: "Municipalities who are able to focus on having infrastructure that is designed for tomorrow's weather, as well as today's weather, are far less likely to have citizens experience losses like basement flooding." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories COMING UP: Gordon McBean talks to Quirks & Quarks Nov. 26 at noon on CBC Radio One INTERACTIVE: The costs of climate change Adapt to extreme weather or pay price, expert warns Weather harder to predict, Environment Canada warns Climate change could cost billions a year by 2020 External Links Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca