https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/deinocheirus-fossils-reveal-dinosaur-behind-huge-t-rex-arms-1.2808988
Deinocheirus fossils reveal dinosaur behind huge 'T.rex' arms | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Deinocheirus fossils reveal dinosaur behind huge 'T.rex' arms Social Sharing Technology & Science Deinocheirus fossils reveal dinosaur behind huge 'T.rex' arms In 1965, paleontologists dug up a gargantuan pair of tyrannosaur-like fossil dinosaur arms. Now, finally, they have uncovered the rest of the dinosaur and found it 'more bizarre than we could even possibly have imagined.' Social Sharing New skeletons reveal humpback, duck-billed, hoofed, fan-tailed, fish-eating dinosaur Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Oct 22, 2014 1:46 PM ET | Last Updated: October 24, 2014 One of Deinocheirus's stranger features was a series of extra-long bones in its back that formed a hump or sail. The researchers think that may have helped it balance and support its huge mass on its hind legs. (Yuong-Nam Lee/KIGAM) comments In 1965, paleontologists dug up a gargantuan pair of dinosaur arms in Mongolia. Their shape and hollow build suggested they belonged to a fearsome predator like the two-storey-tall Tyrannosaurus rex — but much, much bigger. Now, scientists have finally uncovered the rest of the dinosaur those armed belonged to — and found an astonishing animal. "This dinosaur is even more bizarre than we could even possibly have imagined," said Canadian dinosaur expert Philip Currie, who was part of the international research team that made the new discovery. The team, led by Yuong-Nam Lee at the Korea Institute of Geoscience and Mineral Resources, described their findings in this week's issue of Nature. Summary of the paper in Nature Deinocheirus mirificus was the name that scientists gave to the mysterious dinosaur nearly 50 years ago, after the discovery of its 2.4-metre long arms. Deinocheirus was similar in size to Tyrannosaurus rex and belonged to a group of ostrich-like dinosaurs. (Michael Skrepnick) "The size was just mind-boggling," said Currie, a paleontology professor at the University of Alberta who has been fascinated by the discovery for decades. "People started speculating, 'Well if Tyrannosarus rex has arms as short as ours and this thing has arms that are six feet long, this dinosaur must be like 300 feet (91 metres) long' — which was ridiculous, of course." Coming up: Philip Currie talks to Quirks & Quarks Oct. 25 at noon on CBC Radio One The international research team recently discovered two nearly complete Deinocheirus skeletons that revealed it wasn't a tyrannosaur. Instead, it belonged to a family of ostrich-like dinosaurs called Ornithomimids – most of which were ostrich-sized or human-sized and had longer arms relative to their bodies than tyrannosaurs did. Deinocheirus was the largest known dinosaur in the group – it was nearly as long as a bus (11 metres) with an estimated mass of six tonnes, making it similar in size to T. rex. It also looked very different from its ostrich-like cousins, which had pointed bills and slender legs that ended in sharp-clawed feet. Deinocheirus had a duck-like bill and stubby legs that ended in hoof-like claws, which may have stopped it from sinking in muddy ground. Currie said Deinocheirus lived about 70 million years ago (about five million years before dinosaurs went extinct) along a river running through the desert, similar to the Nile. The area was home to about 40 other species of dinosaurs ranging from chicken-sized creatures to massive, long-necked plant-eaters. Like a suspension bridge One of Deinocheirus's stranger features was a series of extra-long bones in its back that formed a hump or sail. Researchers think that may have helped it balance and support its huge mass on its hind legs. "It looks very much like suspension bridges where you have those big pillars in the middle the bridge and those cables coming down on either side," Currie said. The last few bones of its backbone were fused together like they are in birds such as turkeys. "This thing probably had a fan of feathers at the end of the tail," Currie said. "It's the first time we've ever seen that in one of these dinosaurs…. So you know, you can look at anywhere in the skeleton — and it's just weird." Along with the bones, the researchers also found the remains of the dinosaurs' stomach contents. Those included rocks, suggesting that Deinocherus swallowed stones to grind up plants and seeds the way birds do. But among the rocks were also fish bones and scales, suggesting that Deinocheirus was an omnivore. Currie said the discovery is a "good warning that even though we think we know a lot about dinosaurs, in fact we don't." Currie travels to the fossil beds in the Gobi Desert of Mongolia at least once a year to dig for dinosaurs, and searched for years for signs of Deinocheirus. A shop in France In 2006 and 2009, he and his collaborators found the remains of two dinosaur skeletons that had been damaged by fossil poachers. The poachers had removed key parts such as the skull, making them difficult to identify. In one case, Currie's team managed to re-assemble a smashed-up arm bone, revealing that it belonged to Deinocheirus. Bolortsetseg Minjin, left, director of Mongolia's natural history museum, talks with paleontologist Philip J. Currie, centre, and attorney Robert Painter, before a repatriation ceremony in 2013 to return a Tyrannosaurus bataar skeleton that was looted from the Gobi Desert and illegally smuggled into the U.S. (Richard Drew/Associated Press) Some time later, Currie got a call from Pascal Godefroit, a paleontologist at the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences, who thought he had found the skull and feet of Deinocheirus in a fossil dealer's shop in France. It turned out to be parts of the specimen that Currie found in 2009, presumably taken by poachers and then passed along from dealer to dealer before arriving in the shop of François Escuillie. Escuillie, upon learning that the fossil had been illegally excavated, donated it back to the Mongolian government so it could be officially studied. Paleontologists avoid illegally obtained skeletons to discourage poaching, which causes serious damage to fossils and fossil sites. While Currie has studied lots of species of dinosaurs over his career and discovered many new ones, he says none of them compares to Deinocheirus. "It's probably one of the coolest things I've ever done in my life." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Coming up: Philip Currie talks to Quirks & Quarks Oct. 25 at noon on CBC Radio One Dinosaur toes found in Alberta's Badlands leads to fossil find Photos Discovering Dinosaurs digs into Alberta's fossil finds Spinosaurus is the first semiaquatic dinosaur ever discovered Dreadnoughtus may be the biggest dinosaur ever Drones flying over Alberta badlands to map dinosaur beds External Links Summary of the paper in Nature Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca