https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/ancient-lizards-in-amber-amaze-scientists-1.3172105
Ancient lizards in amber amaze scientists | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Ancient lizards in amber amaze scientists Social Sharing Technology & Science Ancient lizards in amber amaze scientists A community of lizards from the Caribbean, preserved for 20 million years in amber, have been found to be identical to their modern cousins, say researchers. Social Sharing Amber preserves colour of lizard when it died and whether its eyes were open or shut Australian Broadcasting Corporation · Posted: Jul 29, 2015 10:10 AM ET | Last Updated: July 30, 2015 Amber fossils are usually just a hollow impression, but the new fossils of anolis lizards from the island of Hispaniola, provide phenomenal detail — including the colour of the lizard, what it was last doing, and whether its eyes were open or shut. (Ettore Morone) comments A community of lizards from the Caribbean, preserved for 20 million years in amber, have been found to be identical to their modern cousins, say researchers. This suggests the different niches inhabited by the lizards have - incredibly - changed little over the past 20 million-years, report the team, in this week's Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Summary of the paper "These fossils were really surprising because of how much detail they contained, allowing us to see how these lizards would have looked in real life," says the study's lead author Emma Sherratt of the University of New England in Australia. Sherratt says amber fossils are usually just a hollow impression, but the new fossils of anolis lizards from the island of Hispaniola, provide phenomenal detail — including the colour of the lizard, what it was last doing, and whether its eyes were open or shut. This is a modern-day anole near Archer, Fla. The ones trapped in amber were found to be very similar to modern-day anoles in Hispaniola. (Phil Sandlin/Associated Press) "Most of ours had full skeletons, and details of the skin were impressed on the amber, providing very detailed images of tiny scales on the body and on the sticky toe pads," she adds. "You could have taken a lizard today, embedded it resin and it would have looked like one of these creatures. That's how realistic and modern they look." Dinosaur feathers found in Alberta amber Another impressive aspect to the study is the large number of amber fossils analyzed. While previous research has mostly looked at individual specimens, this study involved 38 lizards fossils from various locations on Hispaniola. Obtained from museums and private collections — one was even a pendant in a necklace — the community of fossils represent the largest group of vertebrates encased in amber. "Nothing like this has ever been described before," says Sherratt. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Amber fossil shows ancient sexual reproduction in flowers Dinosaur feathers found in Alberta amber External Links Harvard Gazette news story Summary of the paper in PNAS Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca