https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/giant-dinosaur-bones-found-in-spain-1.603347
Giant dinosaur bones found in Spain | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Giant dinosaur bones found in Spain Social Sharing Technology & Science Giant dinosaur bones found in Spain The fossil bones of what may have been Europe's largest animal ever, a new type of dinosaur, have been discovered in Spain. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Dec 22, 2006 10:51 AM ET | Last Updated: December 22, 2006 The fossil bones of what may have been Europe's largest animal ever —a new type of dinosaur —have been discovered in Spain. Discovery of the sauropod, estimated to have weighed between about 40 and 48 tonnes, is reported in Friday's issue of the journal Science. Named Turiasaurus Riodevensis, the animal lived in the Teruel area of what is now Spain in the late Jurassic period, about 150 million years ago. The remains were found by a team led by Rafael Royo-Torres of the Joint Paleontology Foundation Teruel-Dinopolis. In the past, such large dinosaurs have primarily been found in Africa and the New World. "The humerus— the long bone in the foreleg that runs from the shoulder to the elbow— was as large as an adult" human, Brooks Hanson, a Science deputy editor, said in a statement. The claw of the first digit of its pes, or hoof, is the size of an NFL football. The researchers found several other bones as well, and were able to group the new find with other remains from Portugal, France and Britain into a new clade, or branch, of dinosaurswith more primitive limb and bone structures than other giants. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Science Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca