https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/eu-greenhouse-gas-emission-targets-1.3280007
EU greenhouse gas emissions plunge below 2020 target | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news EU greenhouse gas emissions plunge below 2020 target Social Sharing Technology & Science EU greenhouse gas emissions plunge below 2020 target The European Union, the world's No. 3 greenhouse gas polluter, says its emissions fell four per cent last year, meaning the 28-country bloc has already surpassed its target for 2020. Social Sharing Canada not on track to meet its goal, environmental groups say The Associated Press · Posted: Oct 20, 2015 11:17 AM ET | Last Updated: October 20, 2015 Miguel Arias Canete, left, the EU's commissioner for climate and energy, announces the latest European emissions figures with European Environment Agency executive director Hans Bruynincks on Tuesday in Brussels. The EU has already met its 2020 climate change target, while Canada is struggling with its own goal. (Olivier Hoslet/EPA) comments The European Union, the world's No. 3 greenhouse gas polluter, says its emissions fell four per cent last year, meaning the 28-country bloc has already surpassed its target for 2020. A report by the EU's environment agency on Tuesday said 2014 emissions were 23 per cent lower than in 1990. The EU's goal is to achieve 20 per cent reductions by 2020, but the report said the bloc is headed for 24 to 25 per cent cuts with current measures to fight climate change. EU agrees to cut greenhouse gases by 40% by 2030 Canada lags on greenhouse gas targets, critics charge It said the drop in 2014 "was partly due to an unusually warm year, which lowered energy demand." EU climate commissioner Miguel Arias Canete called the results "a strong signal" ahead of a December climate conference in Paris that "Europe stands by its commitments and that our climate and energy policies work." Canada's goal is to reduce emissions 17 per cent by 2020 from their level in 2005. The United States has pledged to cut emissions by about the same. Environmental groups and the federal government's environmental watchdog say Canada is not on track to meet that goal. The country's longer-term goal is to cut emissions 30 per cent from 2005 levels by 2030. All G7 countries have pledged to stop using fossil fuels, the major source of greenhouse gas emissions, by 2100. With files from CBC News CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Canada's action on climate change still 'inadequate': Bob McDonald Analysis The G7 and its 85–year carbon pledge Ocean acidification needs more focus at climate talks, scientists say Quebec sets bold new greenhouse gas reduction targets Barack Obama sets stricter power plant emissions cuts Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca