https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/canada-biodiversity-1.5125108
Startling UN biodiversity report is a reminder of the risks Canada faces | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Startling UN biodiversity report is a reminder of the risks Canada faces Social Sharing Technology & Science Startling UN biodiversity report is a reminder of the risks Canada faces Monday's UN report on biodiversity startled many when it said one million species are threatened with extinction across the globe. It's important to remember that Canada is not immune from losing its own biodiversity, experts say. Social Sharing Habitat loss, climate change put species at risk, says one of report's co-authors Nicole Mortillaro · CBC News · Posted: May 07, 2019 4:00 AM ET | Last Updated: May 7, 2019 A female southern resident killer whale breaches in the Salish Sea between Washington state and British Columbia. (Monika Wieland Shields/Shutterstock) comments Canada, the second-largest country in the world and home to a large assortment of species, is experiencing many of the effects of habitat and species loss highlighted Monday in the UN's first comprehensive report on biodiversity, and experts say that's a concern. Extinction looms over one million species of plants and animals worldwide, scientists said. Human activity is changing the way we use our land and oceans. We exploit animals, we pollute, we are driving a changing climate and we are introducing invasive species into ecosystems, whether by accident or not. According to the Canadian Wildlife Federation, of the roughly 1.8 million identified animal species in the world (it's estimated there could be between five and 20 million species), 140,000 live in Canada, half of which are unidentified. Among some of the findings of a 2017 report from the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) were that, between 1970 and 2014, mammals had declined by an average of 43 per cent, grassland birds dropped by 69 per cent and the fish populations had declined by 20 per cent straight across Canada. Many groups of caribou are threatened across Canada, including woodland caribou. (The Canadian Press) One of the primary reasons, said Emily Giles, co-author of that report and WWF senior species specialist, is habitat loss. "Canada is not immune to the losses we're hearing about. It's very easy to think that the things they talk about don't apply here, but they do," Giles said. "In particular, habitat loss is a really important thing that we need to combat here. Some of Canada's least-protected areas are also those areas most important to species at risk and are also important for capturing carbon and storing carbon." And that's happening as our population grows, small towns expand, the urban sprawl continues and the need for more agricultural land increases. 'This is it' While Monday's report from the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) is alarming, it's not all doom and gloom. But if humans are to mitigate a mass species extinction there will need to be "fundamental, structural change," says one of the report's co-authors. "The current fight that we're having between provinces and the feds around oilsands, pipelines, climate change and local environmental impacts … is not actually a fight that we should be having," said Kai Chan, a University of British Columbia professor. While habitat loss is one major driver, another is our changing climate. And we don't have far to look to see its efffects, Chan said. Southern resident killer whales off the British Columbia coast: "That population is on the brink of no return." Mountain and boreal caribou: "It's pretty clear a few of those herds are not going to make it." Melting Arctic permafrost: "There are some really dangerous climate feedbacks there." Previous Next Hide caption Toggle Fullscreen1 of 0 Giles said some Canadians may be complacent about the natural world and the importance of biodiversity, in part because our country is so vast, so sparsely populated and with most of its population living in cities. That disconnection with nature can be detrimental from a local scale all the way to a global scale. But we have to remember how interconnected we are, for example how much we depend on pollinators, specifically bees, for our food. We also depend on marine life to keep our water clean. 'A reaffirmation of what we know': Grim UN biodiversity report unsurprising to many scientists, First Nations More talk than action on increasing caribou protection: federal report Reports like this one and the WWF's are important, Giles said. "[It] reminds us that nature is the key to sustaining human life as well," she said. "So we can't take it for granted." Giles said individuals can make a difference, for example by growing native plants in their gardens. Milkweed, for example, can help support monarch butterflies, which are threatened. Another important factor, she says, is to have people in charge who are concerned about the environment. "Vote for people who put environment and nature first," she said. "The message has never been so urgent, and the message has never been so clear: biodiversity … wildlife loss around the world is truly a global crisis," Giles said. "It's clear from this report: We can't wait anymore. This is it." Melting permafrost and ice is visible along the coast of the Mackenzie Delta. (Roger MacLeod/Natural Resources Canada) About the Author Nicole Mortillaro Senior Reporter, Science Nicole has an avid interest in all things science. As an amateur astronomer, Nicole can be found looking up at the night sky appreciating the marvels of our universe. She is the editor of the Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada and the author of several books. With files from The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories 'A reaffirmation of what we know': Grim UN biodiversity report unsurprising to many scientists, First Nations Rare grassland pastures resembling 'what the Prairies used to look like' declared important bird area Conservationists worry about looming changes to Ontario's endangered species act Nature is in its worst shape in human history, UN report says Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca