https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/pinocchio-rex-long-snouted-tyrannosaur-discovered-in-asia-1.2634651
Pinocchio rex long-snouted tyrannosaur discovered in Asia | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Pinocchio rex long-snouted tyrannosaur discovered in Asia Social Sharing Technology & Science Pinocchio rex long-snouted tyrannosaur discovered in Asia Paleontologists have discovered a species of long-snouted dinosaur in southern China, spurring the creation of a new branch of the tyrannosaur family tree. Social Sharing Fossil find spurs creation of new branch of the tyrannosaur family tree CBC News · Posted: May 07, 2014 10:41 AM ET | Last Updated: May 7, 2014 The newly discovered tyrannosaur had an elongated jaw and long, narrow teeth, while other known species had deep-set robust jaws and thick teeth. (Junchang Lu) comments Paleontologists have discovered a species of long-snouted dinosaur in southern China, spurring the creation of a new branch of the tyrannosaur family tree. Nicknamed Pinocchio rex for its signature elongated snout, researchers whose work was published in the journal Nature Communications say the large cousin to Tyrannosaurus rex was likely a fearsome carnivore that roamed throughout Asia in the late Cretaceous period, or until about 66 million years ago. Dinosaurs that evolved into birds survived by shrinking New dinosaur, cousin of T. rex, discovered in Arctic The predator, which has been assigned the formal name of Qianzhousaurus sinensis, had distinctive skull features that differentiate it from its more well-known kin T. rex. Aside from its snout, the dinosaur had long, narrow teeth, while T. rex had thick teeth and powerful, deep-set jaws. "This is a different breed of tyrannosaur. It has the familiar toothy grin of T. rex, but its snout was much longer and it had a row of horns on its nose," says Steve Brusatte, professor at the University of Edinburgh's school of geosciences in Scotland and one of the authors of the study. "It might have looked a little comical, but it would have been as deadly as any other tyrannosaur, and maybe even a little faster and stealthier." The fossil find has confirmed a long-held suspicion among paleontologists that long-snouted tyrannosaurs once roamed in Asia. (Chuang Zhao) The find has confirmed a long-held suspicion among paleontologists that long-snouted tyrannosaurs existed. Until now, the theory was only circumstantial, supported by two separate finds of fossilized tyrannosaur skulls with seemingly elongated snouts. Researchers were uncertain, however, if the skulls simply belonged to juvenile tyrannosaurs that would have eventually developed the telltale thick, robust skull most often associated with the family. The Pinocchio rex fossil was reportedly unearthed largely intact and well-preserved. While the animal would have cohabited certain environments with other species of tyrannosaur, it was larger than most and probably hunted different prey, researchers say. Researchers expect more dinosaurs to be added to the tyrannosaur family tree as more fossils are unearthed throughout Asia. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories New dinosaur, cousin of T. Rex, discovered in Arctic Dinosaur species that evolved into birds survived by shrinking Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca