https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/artificial-volcanoes-space-umbrellas-among-far-out-climate-change-plans-1.686732
Artificial volcanoes, space umbrellas among far-out climate change plans | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Artificial volcanoes, space umbrellas among far-out climate change plans Social Sharing Technology & Science Artificial volcanoes, space umbrellas among far-out climate change plans Governments should consider proposals to put a huge barrier in space to block sunlight if conventional efforts to curb rising temperatures don't succeed, says a draft report by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Social Sharing The Canadian Press · Posted: Apr 25, 2007 9:49 AM ET | Last Updated: April 25, 2007 If all else fails in the battle to curb global warming, there's always the big umbrella in space. Governments should consider proposals to put a huge barrier in space to block sunlight if conventional efforts to curb rising temperatures don't succeed, says a draft report by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Scientists believe that such "geo-engineering techniques," however far-fetched they sound, could be used to buy time if worst-case ecological predictions are realized. A sun-blocking disc would cover an area of 106 square kilometres, weigh 3,000 tonnes and spin continually. It would be built over time by a space shuttle, says the draft IPCC report. Construction would require one shuttle flight annually for 100 years. Another proposal, which some liken to an artificial volcano, calls for the controlled scattering of tiny sulphur particles in the atmosphere, to reduce sunlight reaching the planet. Nobel Prize-winning scientist Paul Crutzen has advocated this as the safest of the unconventional techniques that are being considered, since natural volcanic eruptions are known to produce a cooling effect that is reversible. "These schemes do not affect the expected escalation in global carbon dioxide levels but could reduce or eliminate the associated warming," says the draft study, which could still undergo major revisions before its scheduled release next month. How about fertilizing the oceans with iron? Crazy as it sounds, this idea has been the subject of at least 11 studies in different parts of the world, including one in Canada, and is considered to have some promise. Iron is a nutrient for phytoplankton that live in upper levels of the ocean. These microbes have the property of absorbing carbon. The theory is that scattering iron in the water would stimulate their growth, producing higher rates of carbon absorption. Gordon McBean, president of the Canadian Foundation for Climate and Atmospheric Science, says these unconventional approaches need to be studied because governments will want to know which options have promise. Unconventional techniques are generally considered in terms of a "last-ditch" situation — for example if it became clear that the Greenland ice fields were at severe risk of disintegration, which would cause a catastrophic rise in sea levels. The panel also discussed the idea of carbon sequestration — removing carbon from emissions and burying it in the ground in sealed geological cavities. That is already being done in a few places around the world, including Saskatchewan. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories IN DEPTH: Global warming is man-made — and getting worse, scientists conclude IN DEPTH: UN panel makes grim predictions about climate change Leaked speech reveals Tories' plan to cut greenhouse gases Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca