https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/canada-biggest-climate-risks-report-1.5199497
Canadian buildings, coastlines, northern communities face biggest climate risks: report | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Canadian buildings, coastlines, northern communities face biggest climate risks: report Social Sharing Technology & Science Canadian buildings, coastlines, northern communities face biggest climate risks: report New research for the federal Treasury Board has concluded that buildings, coastlines and northern communities face the biggest risks from climate change in Canada. Social Sharing '[Most] think it's someone else's problem to solve,' co-author says The Canadian Press · Posted: Jul 04, 2019 6:26 AM ET | Last Updated: July 4, 2019 Canada's coastlines are among the top three things facing the biggest risks from climate change in the country. (Darren Calabrese/Canadian Press) comments New research for the federal Treasury Board has concluded that buildings, coastlines and northern communities face the biggest risks from climate change in Canada. In a report released Thursday, the Council of Canadian Academies has narrowed down a myriad of threats posed by climate change into the most pressing dozen — a list co-author John Leggat hopes will wake people up to the urgent need to prepare for them. "[Most] think it's someone else's problem to solve," he said. "It kind of goes to the root of the problem." The council is comprised of Canada's leading academics and researchers. The report, done at the Treasury Board's request, was conducted by experts from industry, insurance firms, engineers, sociologists and economists. Thawing soil threatens this historic site, but Parks Canada won't say it's because of climate change CLIMATE CHANGE In our backyard: What climate change in Canada looks like Climate change is such a broad issue that it can be difficult to figure out what to do first, Leggat said, adding that the report is an attempt to do that. "It puts it into a context of what are the top risks." The research narrowed down a list of 57 potential environmental effects to six, and ranked them not only by magnitude of the threat, but by the availability of remedies. Right at the very top was infrastructure. Heavy rains, floods or high winds are growing threats to buildings from homes to hospitals. The same extreme weather increases the chance of power outages and grid failures — even what the report calls "cascading infrastructure failures." Sign up for CBC's environmental newsletter, What on Earth? Coastal communities come next. Climate change is slowly raising sea levels, making floods more common and surges heavier and more powerful. Northerners are third on the list. Not only do their homes and shorelines face unique challenges, such as permafrost melting away underneath them, climate change also threatens their way of life. "They really rely on and are closely connected to the land," said co-author Bronwyn Hancock. "The way the culture is set up — governance, spirituality, the way language is passed — all really pivot around that connection to land." The next three on the list are human health, ecosystems and fisheries. The top 12 are rounded out with agriculture and food, forestry, geopolitical unrest, governance, Indigenous traditions and water. Getting people to pay is the challenge Solutions are available to mitigate many of the environmental effects from those top six threats. Building codes can be revised to ensure more resilient homes, offices, electrical pylons or airport runways. Coastal communities can prepare in advance for storm-driven flooding. Information networks can provide northerners with up-to-date conditions for travel on the land or sea ice. CBC EXPLAINS What is climate change? CLIMATE CHANGE 'It's a problem for society': Climate change is making some homes uninsurable Leggat noted damage to roads and buildings is a lot easier to prevent or fix than damage to sensitive and poorly understood natural ecosystems. "We have to start thinking about ways we can protect the natural systems so the human systems can survive," he said. The challenge, Leggat said, is getting Canadians to pony up for ways to reduce the threat. He pointed to a recent poll that found while most understood climate change presented a risk, few were willing to pay anything to reduce it. Canada warming at twice the global rate, leaked report finds CLIMATE CHANGE From breakup to 'fake-up': How a changing Yukon River is reshaping an age-old ice bridge Climate Change Canadians are worried about climate change, but many don't want to pay taxes to fight it: Poll "The majority of Canadians weren't prepared to pay any amount of money for mitigation," he said. But Leggat said the council's report should reduce some of the uncertainty about where to start. "We know what to do. We understand what the risks are and we can invest with confidence." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Thawing soil threatens this historic site, but Parks Canada won't say it's because of climate change CLIMATE CHANGE In our backyard: What climate change in Canada looks like Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca