https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/iceberg-twice-the-size-of-manhattan-breaks-off-greenland-glacier-1.1168635
Iceberg twice the size of Manhattan breaks off Greenland glacier | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Iceberg twice the size of Manhattan breaks off Greenland glacier Social Sharing Technology & Science Iceberg twice the size of Manhattan breaks off Greenland glacier A 120-square-kilometre iceberg tore off one of Greenland's largest glaciers and began floating downstream Monday, illustrating another dramatic change to the warming island. Social Sharing 120 square kilometre chunk splits from northerly tip of Petermann Glacier The Associated Press · Posted: Jul 18, 2012 11:23 AM ET | Last Updated: July 18, 2012 A crescent-shaped crack in the centre-right of this NASA satellite image shows where a massive iceberg broke free of the Petermann Glacier and began drifting downstream. The image was taken by the moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer, or MODIS, on NASA's Aqua satellite An iceberg twice the size of Manhattan tore off one of Greenland's largest glaciers, illustrating another dramatic change to the warming island. For several years, scientists had been watching a long crack near the tip of the northerly Petermann Glacier. On Monday, NASA satellites showed it had broken completely, freeing an iceberg measuring about 120 square kilometres. A massive ice sheet covers about four-fifths of Greenland. Petermann Glacier is mostly on land, but a segment sticks out over water like a frozen tongue, and that's where the break occurred. This NASA image provided by the University of Delaware shows where the 120 square kilometre ice island separated from the tongue-like part of the glacier that sticks out over water. (NASA/University of Delaware/Associated Press) The same glacier spawned an iceberg twice that size two years ago. Together, the breaks made a large change that's got the attention of researchers. "It's dramatic. It's disturbing," said University of Delaware professor Andreas Muenchow, who was one of the first researchers to notice the break. "We have data for 150 years, and we see changes that we have not seen before." "It's one of the manifestations that Greenland is changing very fast," he said. Global warming suspected Researchers suspect global warming is to blame, but can't prove it conclusively yet. Glaciers do calve icebergs naturally, but what's happened in the last three years to Petermann is unprecedented, Muenchow and other scientists say. "This is not part of natural variations anymore," said NASA glaciologist Eric Rignot, who camped on Petermann 10 years ago. Ohio State University ice scientist Ian Howat said there is still a chance it could be normal calving, like losing a fingernail that has grown too long, but any further loss would show it's not natural. "We're still in the phase of scratching our heads and figuring out how big a deal this really is." Rate of melt increasing Many of Greenland's southern glaciers have been melting at an unusually rapid pace. The Petermann break brings large ice loss much farther north than in the past, said Ted Scambos, lead scientist at the National Snow and Ice Data Center in Boulder, Colo. If it continues, and more of the Petermann is lost, the melting would push up sea levels, he said. The ice lost so far was already floating, so the breaks don't add to global sea levels. Northern Greenland and Canada have been warming five times faster than the average global temperature, Muenchow said. Temperatures have increased there by about two degrees Celsius in the last 30 years, Scambos said. The new iceberg is likely to follow the path of the one in 2010, Muenchow said. That broke apart into smaller icebergs headed north, then west and last year started landing in Newfoundland, he said. It's more than glaciers in Greenland that are melting. Scientists also reported this week that the Arctic had the largest sea ice loss on record for June. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Unique glacier research facility in Yukon hit by federal cuts Glacier time-lapse images reveal 'epochal change' Giant algae blooms thriving under thinning Arctic sea ice Warmer seas rising faster on U.S. east coast than elsewhere Pacific Ocean acid levels jeopardizing marine life Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca