http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/give-geoengineering-a-chance-to-fix-climate-change-david-keith-1.2586882
Give geoengineering a chance to fix climate change: David Keith | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Give geoengineering a chance to fix climate change: David Keith Social Sharing Technology & Science·In Depth Give geoengineering a chance to fix climate change: David Keith The issue of climate change is a source of intense political and policy debate, but if you really want to see the sparks fly, try suggesting geoengineering as a solution to global warming. Social Sharing If you want to see sparks fly, try suggesting geoengineering as a solution to global warming Chris Wodskou · CBC News · Posted: Mar 29, 2014 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: March 29, 2014 As the term implies, geoengineering is engineering on a planetary scale. It involves attempting to arrest the course of climate change through mega-projects - by seeding the atmosphere with reflective particles, for example, or by putting gigantic mirrors in orbit around the Earth to reflect sunlight back to space, or by fertilizing the ocean with iron to stimulate the growth of carbon-absorbing plankton. comments There may indeed be broad agreement among scientists that climate change is happening, humans are causing it and urgent action is needed to prevent a global disaster. New reports from the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change only add to the weight of science’s verdict on the subject. Just what to do about climate change, however - and how quickly - is still a matter of intense political and policy debate. And if you really want to see the sparks fly, try suggesting geoengineering as a solution to global warming. David Keith took first prize in Canada's national physics prize exam, won MIT's prize for excellence in experimental physics, and was listed as one of TIME magazine's Heroes of the Environment for 2009. A proponent of geoengineering to address climate change, he's now a professor of applied physics and of public policy at Harvard University. (Courtesy Harvard) As the term implies, geoengineering is engineering on a planetary scale. Geoengineering is an attempt to arrest the course of climate change through a number of different schemes, such as seeding the atmosphere with reflective particles. Or putting gigantic mirrors in orbit around the Earth to reflect sunlight back to space. Or fertilizing the ocean with iron to stimulate the growth of carbon-absorbing plankton. For a lot of people, it sounds like mad science. And geoengineering has been a magnet for controversy and criticism. Its opponents include some of the world’s most prominent environmentalists, including David Suzuki and Al Gore. Earlier this year, in fact, the former U.S. Vice President said the very idea of geoengineering is “insane, utterly mad and delusional in the extreme.” He added, “the fact that some scientists who should know better are actually engaged in serious discussion of those alternatives is a mark of how desperate some of them are feeling due to the paralysis in the global political system." The Sunday Edition March 30 on The Sunday Edition on CBC radio, starting at 9 a.m.: Quebec votes: Three astute Quebec observers - Bernie St-Laurent, Francine Pelletier and André Pratte - explain how the early optimism of Premier Pauline Marois has dissipated. Jonathan Schell tribute: The expert on the politics and morality of nuclear weapons died this week. Spare Change: For many of us, panhandlers provide a daily prick to the conscience. The Centenary of the Newfoundland Sealing Disaster: Poet and novelist Michael Crummey and author Jenny Higgins, on the 1914 tragedy in which 79 sealers froze to death on the ice floes off Newfoundland. But Canadian environmental engineer David Keith is taken seriously by policymakers and scientists when he speaks about the possibilities of geoengineering. Keith was a long-time professor at the University of Calgary and is now a Professor of Public Policy at the Harvard Kennedy School and the Gordon McKay Professor of Engineering and Applied Sciences at Harvard University. He’s particularly interested in solar geoengineering, or solar radiation management, which would involve putting tiny sulphur particles into the stratosphere, where they would reflect solar energy back to space. In his new book, A Case for Climate Engineering, Keith says geoengineering is a “brutally ugly technical fix.” He cheerfully admits he has a lot of qualms about it as a technology that could have dangerous and unintended consequences, and that it doesn’t address the root cause of climate change: the buildup of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. But, as Keith told The Sunday Edition’s Michael Enright in an interview, that doesn’t mean we should ignore the fact that it could rapidly lower the Earth’s temperature and counteract some of the effects of climate change. It’s technically feasible and relatively inexpensive to do, he adds. And given how the global community has dragged its heels on reducing emissions, he argues, a crude, quick fix for climate change may become necessary in the decades ahead. “I think the important point is that it’s not hard to do, that all the hard questions are about whether we should do it, who controls it, how well it works.” Keith also acknowledges the danger that if geoengineering were to become seen as a proven solution to rising global temperatures, there would be a strong temptation to forego costly emissions reductions and simply press ahead with geoengineering to counteract the results of rising levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere instead. Bob McDonald on IPCC climate change report: The good and bad news for Canada The Current: Planet Hacking - geoengineering to control climate change As It Happens: Haida Gwaii geoengineering “You [need to] do geoengineering during the time that you slow down emissions. In the long run, you have to bring emissions to zero," he says. According to Keith, if we want a stable climate, we must eventually stop putting more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. "Carbon dioxide is like filling a bathtub. The climate risk comes from the historical sum of all emissions. The only way to stop adding to that risk is to stop putting more carbon dioxide in." “But let’s say you’re going to stop carbon dioxide emissions over 100 years. If you do this solar geoengineering, you could spread out the climate change over 200 years, slowing down the amount of climate change, and I would say most climate risks have to do with the rate of change.” Keith is not calling for an immediate adoption of geoengineering. What he wants to see is scientific and political energy poured into research into geoengineering’s possibilities and risks, and a robust public debate so that informed policy decisions can be made about whether it’s a viable tool to prevent the worst effects of climate change. [You can hear Michael Enright’s entire conversation with David Keith this weekend in Hour 2 of The Sunday Edition, which begins at 10:05 a.m. on CBC Radio One, or in the audio-player link at the top-left of this page.] CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Scientists join list craze: 8 reasons to worry about global warming Bob McDonald on IPCC Climate change report Audio A case for climate engineering Audio 'Planet hacking' to control climate sparks controversy Artificial cooling of Earth could reverse global warming Iron dumping off B.C. draws UN group's condemnation Creating clouds to ease global warming would harm ozone layer: study Artificial volcanoes, space umbrellas among far-out climate change plans Scientists eye odd climate fixes New weapon in climate change battle: Plankton? Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca