http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/story/2011/04/19/tech-canadarm2.html
Canadarm2 turns 10 | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Canadarm2 turns 10 Social Sharing Technology & Science Canadarm2 turns 10 Ten years ago, Canadian astronaut Chris Hadfield floated high above the Atlantic as he helped install the Canadarm2 on the International Space Station. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Apr 19, 2011 12:05 PM ET | Last Updated: April 19, 2011 The Canadarm2 helped build the orbiting outpost and continues to do the heavy lifting today as it maintains the station. (The Canadian Space Agency ) Ten years ago this month, Canadian astronaut Chris Hadfield floated in orbit high above the Atlantic Ocean as he helped install the Canadarm2 on the International Space Station. On Tuesday, he reminisced about the moment the national anthem was played in space, shortly after he had completed the task. "I stood at attention floating weightless inside my space suit," he said, speaking from Houston, Texas, during a virtual news conference hosted by Canadian Space Agency president Steve MacLean to mark the robotic arm's 10th anniversary. Hadfield, who became the first Canadian to walk in space during the mission, says he still feels tremendous pride about all the Canadarm2 has done, adding that it remains an important inspiration for youth in this country. "When you're looking for a symbol of what Canada has done … few are as visually symbolic or as currently active in cutting-edge exploration as Canadarm," he said. The Canadarm2 — the country's main contribution to the international space station effort — helped build the orbiting outpost and continues to do the heavy lifting today as it moves supplies, equipment and even astronauts at the station. Unlike its precursor, Canadarm2 is not permanently anchored at one end. Instead, each end can be used as an anchor point while the other performs various tasks. This allows it to walk around the station on its own, moving end-over-end. Canadarm2 is also larger and heavier than the original. On Earth it weighs about 1,640 kilograms, compared with 410 kg for the Canadarm. Canadarm's future The original Canadarm, attached to NASA's space shuttle Endeavour and launched in 1981, was heralded at the time as Canada's most famous technological achievement. Today, each of NASA's three shuttles is equipped with a Canadarm. After the shuttle program ends with the final flight of Atlantis in June, NASA plans to keep the robotic arms on Discovery and Atlantis, but the Canadarm on the Endeavour has been earmarked to come home. Canadarm2 is designed to be refurbished in space and will probably never return to Earth. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Endeavour's Canadarm coming home External Links Canadian Space Agency: Canadarm2 Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca