http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/what-killed-the-dinosaurs-1.617980
What killed the dinosaurs? | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news What killed the dinosaurs? Social Sharing Technology & Science What killed the dinosaurs? It took more than a meteor to wipe out dinosaurs 65 million years ago, according to a paleontologist who suggests that multiple meteor impacts, massive volcanic activity and climate change caused the extinction of dinosaurs. Social Sharing Debate continues over cause of extinction CBC News · Posted: Oct 27, 2006 11:29 AM ET | Last Updated: October 27, 2006 It took more than a meteorite to wipe out dinosaurs 65 million years ago, according to a paleontologist who suggests that multiple meteorite impacts, massive volcanic activity and climate change caused the extinction of dinosaurs. This contradicts the mainstream belief that a giant meteorite smashed into the Yucatan peninsula in Mexico, causing environmental chaos and the extinction of dinosaurs. Growing evidence shows that the dinosaurs were not wiped out by the famed Chicxulub meteorite impact alone, said Princeton University paleontologist Gerta Keller, who presented her findings at the annual meeting of the Geological Society of America in Philadelphia this week. "The Chicxulub impact alone could not have caused the mass extinction because this impact predates the mass extinction," said Keller. A final, much larger and still unidentified impact 65 million years ago appears to have been the deciding element,killing two-thirds of all species, according to Keller. Marine sediments drilled from the Chicxulub crater, as well as from a site in Texas along the Brazos River and from outcrops in northeastern Mexico, reveal that the Chicxulub meteoritehit the earth 300,000 years before the mass extinction. Microscopic marine animals were left virtually unscathed, according to Keller and her team of scientists. The Chicxulub impact, though violent,worked with volcanic eruptions and climate change to push dinosaur species toward the brink of extinction. The dinosaursdisappearedafter this second and larger meteorite impact, said Keller. But her team couldn't say what happened to the crater from that second impact. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Scientist challenges dinosaur extinction theory Quirks & Quarks: Documenting the Dinosaurs' Demise External Links The Chicxulub debate Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca