https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/oldest-fossils-greenland-1.3743115
Scientists find 3.7 billion-year-old fossils, oldest known | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Scientists find 3.7 billion-year-old fossils, oldest known Social Sharing Technology & Science Scientists find 3.7 billion-year-old fossils, oldest known The earliest fossil evidence of life on Earth has been found in rocks 3.7 billion years old in Greenland. Social Sharing Fossil bacterial communities uncovered in Greenland by melting ice and snow Thomson Reuters · Posted: Aug 31, 2016 2:30 PM ET | Last Updated: August 31, 2016 This is a rock with the stromatolites, tiny layered structures from 3.7 billion years ago that are remnants from a community of microbes that used to live there. (Allen Nutman/University of Wollongong via AP) comments The earliest fossil evidence of life on Earth has been found in rocks 3.7 billion years old in Greenland, raising chances of life on Mars aeons ago when both planets were similarly desolate, scientists said on Wednesday. The experts found tiny humps, between one and four centimetres (0.4 and 1.6 inches) tall, in rocks at Isua in south-west Greenland that they said were fossilized groups of microbes similar to ones now found in seas from Bermuda to Australia. If confirmed as fossilized communities of bacteria known as stromatolites — rather than a freak natural formation — the lumps would pre-date fossils found in Australia as the earliest evidence of life on Earth by 220 million years. 'Oldest' fossils reveal life 3.4 billion years ago "This indicates the Earth was no longer some sort of hell 3.7 billion years ago," lead author Allen Nutman, of the University of Wollongong, told Reuters of the findings that were published in the journal Nature. "It was a place where life could flourish." Researchers Allen Nutman (left) and Vickie Bennet (right) hold a specimen of 3.7 billion-year-old stromatolites from Isua, Greenland. (Yuri Amelin) Earth formed about 4.6 billion years ago and the relative sophistication of stromatolites indicated that life had evolved quickly after a bombardment by asteroids ended about 4 billion years ago. "Stromatolites contain billions of bacteria ... they're making the equivalent of apartment complexes," said Martin Van Kranendonk, a co-author at the University of New South Wales who identified the previously oldest fossils, dating from 3.48 billion years ago. At the time stromatolites started growing in gooey masses on a forgotten seabed, the Earth was probably similar to Mars with liquid water at the surface, orbiting a sun that was 30 per cent dimmer than today, the scientists said. Those parallels could be a new spur to study whether Mars once had life, the authors said. Mars looks more promising for life "Suddenly, Mars may look even more promising than before as a potential abode for past life," Abigail Allwood, of the California Institute of Technology, wrote in a commentary in Nature. The Greenland find was made after a retreat of snow and ice exposed long-hidden rocks. Greenland's government hopes that a thaw linked to global warming will have positive spin-offs, such as exposing more minerals. In this photo provided by Laure Gauthiez, taken in July 2012, a field team examine rocks in Greenland. In a newly melted part of Greenland, scientists have found what they think is the oldest fossil on Earth, a remnant of life from 3.7 billion years ago. (Laure Gauthiez/The Australian National University/Associated Press) Nutman said the main controversy was likely to be that the fossils were in metamorphic rocks, reckoned to have formed under huge stress with temperatures up to 550 C (1,022 F) — usually too high to preserve any trace of life. Still, Van Kranendonk told Reuters that dried-out biological material could sometimes survive such a baking, adding he was "absolutely convinced" by the Greenland fossils. Oldest fossil land organism identified Antarctic permafrost may not be habitable for microbes – so is Mars? CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories 'Oldest' fossils reveal life 3.4 billion years ago Oldest fossil land organism identified Antarctic permafrost may not be habitable for microbes – so is Mars? Nova Scotia home to oldest known pine tree fossils Oldest fossil chameleon found trapped in amber Canadians find signs of ancient life in Australia External Links Summary of the paper in Nature Summary of the commentary in Nature News release from Australian National University Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca