http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/trump-science-bob-mcdonald-1.3845535
Donald Trump needs a science education: Bob McDonald | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Donald Trump needs a science education: Bob McDonald Social Sharing Technology & Science·Blog Donald Trump needs a science education: Bob McDonald Scientists worry about the impact of Trump's views on everything from climate change to vaccines. Social Sharing A president wrongly informed about science can take us down a dangerous path Bob McDonald · CBC News · Posted: Nov 11, 2016 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: November 11, 2016 President-elect Donald Trump has pledged to pull the U.S. out of the Paris climate agreement, and has just appointed Myron Ebell, a well-known climate skeptic, to his Environmental Protection Agency transition team. (Evan Vucci/Associated Press) President-elect Donald Trump believes climate change is a hoax and that vaccines cause autism. He is wrong on both counts. It is time for scientists to raise their voices to ensure the new U.S. administration is properly informed and secure the safety of future scientific research. Scientists from many disciplines are concerned that Trump's knowledge of science seems to be based on incorrect or outdated information. The supposed link between autism and vaccines, for example, is based on one flawed report that has since been disproved by the Centres for Disease Control. Yet this misinformation is still in the public mind, causing an increase in infections such as measles because children are not receiving vaccinations. Lots of autism and vaccine response. Stop these massive doses immediately. Go back to single, spread out shots! What do we have to lose. &mdash;@realDonaldTrump In his first 100-day plan, Trump has said he would return to coal and shale oil for energy production and withdraw billions of dollars from UN climate change programs. He has pledged to pull the U.S. out of the Paris climate agreement, and he just appointed Myron Ebell, a well-known climate skeptic, to his Environmental Protection Agency transition team. This has climate scientists worried that efforts to move forward on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and keeping climate warming below two degrees Celsius will be thwarted by these actions. The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive. &mdash;@realDonaldTrump These anti-science attitudes can affect the future of scientific research, so it is time for scientists to speak up and set the record straight. Traditionally, scientists are not very good at that. There is often a reluctance to speak out against government policies because much of their scientific funding comes from government sources. One exception to that was the "Death of Evidence" movement in Canada, where federal scientists, especially those working on the environment, were muzzled by former prime minister Stephen Harper's government. In response, they staged protests to protect their right to talk freely about their scientific findings. Thankfully, the current government lifted those restrictions. Fake news travels fast Organizations that spread misinformation about climate change, or notions that the Earth was created only 6,000 years ago, or conspiracy theorists who believe the moon landings were faked, are much better at getting public attention than scientists are. They can plant seeds of doubt in the public mind deeply enough to make their ideas seem as credible as the real science. And once those ideas are out there, they take on a life of their own, right up to the political level. Science looks at the world in exquisite detail. It is a tool that figures out how nature works, and more importantly, sees patterns and connections — between the atmosphere and the oceans, the web of life, and the impact of human activity on the planet as a whole. Smoke billows from smokestacks and a coal-fired generator at a steel factory in the industrial province of Hebei, China. Trump has pledged to end 'the war on coal.' (Kevin Frayer/Getty Images) When scientific eyes are closed for the sake of industries and profit, we can head down dangerous roads, such as the one that led to the whole climate change issue in the first place. We warmed the planet by ignoring the effect of exhaust gases spewing out of tailpipes and smoke stacks. But in the same way that science can point out problems such as environmental damage, it can also point to sensible solutions — other ways of keeping ourselves warm and moving from place to place that do not change the climate. That's why scientific research is important. Not to mention the benefits that come from asking basic questions about the nature of the universe. Historically, most great leaps of thought have come from asking fundamental questions. But science can only go so far. It is up to politicians and decision-makers to take that knowledge and put legislation in place that leads to real change. But if the politicians do not understand the science, or refuse to listen to it, decisions can be made that may not be the best in the long term. So it is time for a stronger scientific voice of reason to speak up and defend the right to understand the world around us. It is in everyone's best interest. About the Author Bob McDonald Bob McDonald is the host of CBC Radio's award-winning weekly science program, Quirks & Quarks. He is also a science commentator for CBC News Network and CBC-TV's The National. He has received 12 honorary degrees and is an Officer of the Order of Canada. Quirks & Quarks Bob McDonald RSS feed Bob McDonald's recent columns Bob McDonald's archived columns, 2006 to June 2014 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories What does a Trump win mean for science? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca