https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/scientists-call-for-canadian-boreal-forest-s-protection-1.643495
Scientists call for Canadian boreal forest's protection | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Scientists call for Canadian boreal forest's protection Social Sharing Technology & Science Scientists call for Canadian boreal forest's protection Some 1,500 scientists from more than 50 countries around the world on Monday urged Canadian governments to protect the country's 566.6 million-hectare boreal forest. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: May 14, 2007 5:25 PM ET | Last Updated: May 14, 2007 Some 1,500 scientists from more than 50 countries around the world on Monday urged Canadian governments to protect the country's 566.6 million-hectare boreal forest. The forest — described by the researchers in an open letter as one of the world's last remaining and largest intact forest and wetland ecosystems — is a major source of fresh water in North America, home to billions of animals and important to the livelihood of First Nations communities, they noted. According to the researchers, the boreal forest is threatened by logging, mining, oil and gas operations and other activities, and will continue to be at risk unless federal, provincial and territorial governments increase the area that enjoys protected status from the current 10 per cent to at least 50 per cent. "The world scientific community is recognizing that the Canadian boreal forest is more important than they knew," Jeff Wells, a scientist with the International Boreal Conservation Campaign and the Boreal Songbird Initiative, told CBC.ca. "About 50 per cent of migratory bird species, or aboutthree to five billion birds, migrate through the region, it has the world's largest reservoirs of fresh water in its 1.5 million lakes and ponds … and [it]is a critical shield against global warming," said Wells, who holds a PhD in avian ecology. The region constitutes about one-quarter of the world's forest and is one of five remaining regions that serve a global environmental balancing role, he said. Scientists say the forest is the world's largest storage mass for carbon — a crucial link to help curb global climate change. It is capable of storing 186 billion tonnes of carbon, or the equivalent of 27 years of carbon dioxide emissions from planetary consumption of fossil fuels, according to the researchers. Wells said that in other parts of the world —including the United States — upwards of 90 per cent of forest and grasslands that serve as obstacles to global climate change have been destroyed, changing ecosystems and resulting in the extinction of species. "The carrier pigeon went from [a population] of three to five billion to zero in about 100 years. It was one of the most common species but the last one died in a zoo in 1914.We don't want to repeat that." Ecological models suggest that a four-degree increase in temperature will put 40 per cent of all species at risk of extinction, he said, citing recent research. 'People once thought clean water was unlimited' Scientists have only recently started to realize the global importance of the Canadian boreal forest, Wells said. "People once thought clean water was unlimited, they thought clean air was unlimited, they thought animals were unlimited. Now we know they're not," he said. The elimination of ecosystems and species that have occurred to date are a direct result of that, Wells said. "It's a function of lack of vision, lack of knowledge, and poor planning," Wells said. The International Boreal Conservation Campaign, the Canadian Boreal Initiative and the Boreal Songbird Initiative, backed by U.S.-based Pew Charitable Trusts, publicly released the letter Monday. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Canadian Boreal Initiative Canadian Boreal Initiative Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca