http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/dinosaur-like-snouts-grown-on-chicken-embryos-1.3071434
Dinosaur-like snouts grown on chicken embryos | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Dinosaur-like snouts grown on chicken embryos Social Sharing Technology & Science Dinosaur-like snouts grown on chicken embryos Scientists have grown dinosaur-like snouts on chicken embryos, revealing how the bird beak may have evolved. Social Sharing Scientists block activity of genes turned on during beak development in birds CBC News · Posted: May 12, 2015 4:25 PM ET | Last Updated: May 15, 2015 By making small changes to the way genes are turned on during development, researchers can sometimes induce dinosaur-like traits in the chicken embryos, such as snouts instead of beaks. (Bhart-Anjan Bhullar/Yale University) comments Scientists have grown dinosaur-like snouts on chicken embryos, revealing how the bird beak may have evolved. Birds are thought to have evolved from dinosaurs, but have very different jaws. Bird-like dinosaurs such as the velociraptor have two bones at the tip of their upper jaws. In birds, those bones are fused to form a beak. By blocking two proteins that are activated when chicken embryos grow their beaks, U.S. researchers caused their jaws to "revert" to a velociraptor-like snout. The changes were observed in chick embryos that developed until they were close to hatching. To their surprise, the birds' palates, on the roof of their mouths, also became dinosaur-like. "This was unexpected and demonstrates the way in which a single, simple developmental mechanism can have wide-ranging and unexpected effects," said Bhart-Anjan Bhullar, lead author of the study, in a statement from Yale University. The study was co-led by Arhat Abzhanov, Bhullar's doctoral supervisor at Harvard University. The researchers published their results in the journal Evolution. Summary of the paper in Evolution In order to figure out what might be responsible for beak development, Bhullar and his colleagues compared the activation of genes in birds to that in reptiles such as crocodiles, turtles and lizards as their jaws formed during embryonic development. They found two proteins that were only activated in birds, and those were the ones they blocked during their experiment. The result suggests the kinds of evolutionary changes that led to the development of the beak. It also helps predict what undiscovered "missing link" species between dinosaurs and birds may have looked like, the researchers said. It's not the first time chicken embryos have been reverted to produce a dinosaur-like trait — in 2006, German scientists identified a genetic mutation that causes chicken embryos to grow teeth. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Feathers originated as dinosaur whiskers, U of A experts speculate How dinosaurs shrank into birds Dinosaur species that evolved into birds survived by shrinking Dinosaurs weren't warm-blooded, study suggests External Links Summary of the paper in Evolution Yale University news release Mutant Chickens Grow Teeth (Science) Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca