https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/dinosaur-feather-changes-suggest-moulting-1.944687
Dinosaur feather changes suggest moulting | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Dinosaur feather changes suggest moulting Social Sharing Technology & Science Dinosaur feather changes suggest moulting Two fossils of juvenile feathered dinosaurs found in China suggest that their feathers changed dramatically over their lifetimes, just as those of birds do. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Apr 28, 2010 1:06 PM ET | Last Updated: April 28, 2010 Two fossils of juvenile feathered dinosaurs found in China suggest that their feathers changed dramatically over their lifetimes, just as those of birds do. This artist's drawing of the two Similicaudipteryx specimens shows how different the feathers of the two individuals were. ((Xing Lida and Song Qijin)) Researchers led by Xing Xu at the Chinese Academy of Sciences found two fossils of the dinosaur species Similicaudipteryx, one a young juvenile and the other one older. Similicaudipteryx was about the size of a peacock, and was a member of the Oviraptor family of bird-like dinosaurs. The scientists found the fossils in the Yixian Formation of western Liaoning, China, dating back to the early Cretaceous period, about 125 million years ago. They found that the feathers of the two individuals, visible in detail in the fossils, were different in shape. The wing and tail feathers of the younger specimen were ribbon-like, while those of the older one were shaped like quills. The younger dinosaur's wing feathers were also much smaller than its tail feathers, while the difference in size in the older dinosaur wasn't as noticeable. "The existence of these two different morphotypes suggests that Similicaudipteryx displayed moulting of feathers during development, as in modern birds," the authors wrote this week in the journal Nature. The particular change in feather shape, from ribbon-like to quill-like, is no longer seen in birds, the researchers said, suggesting that some feather shapes have been lost over evolutionary time. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Feathered dinosaur's full plumage unveiled Dinosaur had orange tail feathers: scientists Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca