https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/save-a-third-of-fish-for-birds-scientists-urge-1.1108889
Save a third of fish for birds, scientists urge | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Save a third of fish for birds, scientists urge Social Sharing Technology & Science Save a third of fish for birds, scientists urge Scientists say human fishing boats must leave a third of sardines, anchovies and other small fish in the ocean to save seabirds from declining. Social Sharing Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Dec 22, 2011 2:32 PM ET | Last Updated: December 22, 2011 Scientists say human fishing boats must leave a third of sardines, anchovies and other small fish in the ocean to save seabirds from declining. A new study has found that one third of maximum fish populations is consistently the threshold around the world needed to keep populations of puffins, penguins, gannets, albatrosses and other seabirds stable. The new findings published Thursday in Science could be "used as a guide to limit the amount of fish taken from the sea in order to maintain seabird populations in the long term," said Philippe Cury, a researcher at the French Research Institute for Development and the University of British Columbia fisheries centre who led the project. There are about a billion seabirds in the world, said Michelle Paleczny, a University of British Columbia Master's student in zoology who took part in the international working group that did the calculation based on data from seabird colonies around the world. Seabird population numbers have been falling for around 50 years and the availability of the fish they rely on the as food is thought to play a role. "We know seabirds eat fish and they eat the same things that humans take out of the ocean," Paleczny said. Up until now, fisheries managers have never taken that into account in setting fishing quotas. "The reason in a lot of cases is because they don't have the data," she said. "They don't know how much these top predators need to eat." To fill that gap, the researchers gathered data about the breeding success of 14 species of seabirds, including murres, gannets, puffins and terns, over 15 to 47 years and compared it to fish abundance near their breeding colonies around the world. Paleczny said seabirds are long-lived species adapted to the fluctuations in the populations of the fish they eat. They will raise young only years when food is available. "Every year, they'll lay an egg," she said. "If there's not enough food, they will abandon the egg or chick at a certain point." The data showed that provided fish populations were greater than one-third of the maximum ever recorded, the number of chicks successfully raised by the birds wasn't affected by changes in their food supply. But if the proportion of fish remaining declined below one third, the birds produced fewer chicks. "We were amazed by the consistency of the relationship around the globe," Cury said in a statement. The fish that seabirds compete with humans for are smaller species that have long been billed as more sustainable dinner choices than larger predators such as cod and tuna. But Paleczny said the new findings shouldn't be taken as a cue to switch away from eating sardines and anchovies. Most small fish harvested aren't eaten directly by humans, but processed into fish meal and fish oil to feed to livestock and farmed fish, she said. That means populations of small fish — and seabirds — may be negatively impacted even more if people choose other sources of animal protein. Paleczy acknowledged that the average person doesn't have a great concern for seabirds. But she said they are important indicators about the health of the ocean and fish populations. She added that they include many magnificent species, such as albatrosses, boobies and terns: "They're not all seagulls." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Big fish numbers dwindling: UBC study Fish stocks recovering from overfishing Human overfishing starves dolphins, sharks, seabirds: study Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca