http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/ocean-acidification-from-co2-blamed-for-world-s-worst-mass-extinction-1.3027938
Ocean acidification from CO2 blamed for world's worst mass extinction | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Ocean acidification from CO2 blamed for world's worst mass extinction Social Sharing Technology & Science Ocean acidification from CO2 blamed for world's worst mass extinction Scientists have found the first direct evidence for the cause of the world's worst mass extinction - high carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere that acidified the oceans. Social Sharing CO2 spewed from colossal volcanic eruptions in Siberia 252 million years ago Thomson Reuters · Posted: Apr 10, 2015 10:52 AM ET | Last Updated: April 13, 2015 A clam is seen among the corals at the Great Barrier Reef in Great Keppel island. Ocean acidification has emerged as one of the biggest modern threats to coral reefs across the world. New evidence indicates ocean acidification once also caused the worst mass extinction in history. (Daniel Munoz/Reuters) comments It is one of science's enduring mysteries: what caused the worst mass extinction in Earth's history. And, no, it is not the one that wiped out the dinosaurs. Scientists said on Thursday that huge amounts of carbon dioxide spewed from colossal volcanic eruptions in Siberia may have turned the world's oceans dangerously acidic 252 million years ago - long before the dinosaurs went extinct - helping to drive a global environmental calamity that killed most land and sea creatures alive at the time. These findings may help us understand the threat posed to marine life by modern-day ocean acidification - Rachel Wood, University of Edinburgh The researchers studied rocks in the United Arab Emirates that were on the seafloor at the time and contained a detailed record of the changing ocean conditions at the end of the Permian Period. "This is one of the few cases where we have been able to show that an ocean acidification event happened in deep time," said University of Edinburgh geoscientist Rachel Wood, one of the researchers in the study published in the journal Science. Summary of the paper in Science "This is significant because we believe our modern oceans are becoming similarly acidic," Wood added. "These findings may help us understand the threat posed to marine life by modern-day ocean acidification." Rising acidity of oceans a major threat to coral reefs No direct evidence until now Various hypotheses have been offered to explain the mass extinction that exceeded even the one 65 million years ago caused by an asteroid impact that erased the dinosaurs and many other animals. The researchers said ocean acidification had long been suspected but no direct evidence had been found until now. The researchers studied rocks in the United Arab Emirates that were on the seafloor at the time and contained a detailed record of the changing ocean conditions at the end of the Permian Period. (M.O. Clarkson) Massive eruptions that formed an immense region of volcanic rock called the Siberian Traps represented one of the largest volcanic events of the past half billion years, lasting a million years and spanning the boundary between the Permian and subsequent Triassic Period. The prodigious amounts of carbon dioxide from the eruptions had awful consequences for land and marine life. The absorption of carbon dioxide lethally, but temporarily, changed the chemical composition of the oceans, the researchers said. Methane-spewing microbe blamed in worst mass extinction ever Extinction took 60,000 years The mass extinction unfolded over a period of 60,000 years, they said. The horseshoe crab-like trilobites and the sea scorpions - denizens of the seas for hundreds of millions of years - were among the many marine creatures that vanished. Land animals faced global warming and a general drying of the climate. Most of the dominant mammal-like reptiles died, with the exception of a few lineages including the ones that were the ancestors of modern mammals including people. The mass extinction also paved the way for the first dinosaurs about 20 million years later. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Methane-spewing microbe blamed in worst mass extinction Rising acidity of oceans a major threat to coral reefs Worst extinction ever linked to massive CO2 spill External Links Summary of the paper in Science University of Edinburgh news release Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca