https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/2015-hottest-year-wmo-1.3336123
2015 will be hottest year on record — until 2016, WMO predicts | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news 2015 will be hottest year on record — until 2016, WMO predicts Social Sharing Technology & Science 2015 will be hottest year on record — until 2016, WMO predicts This year will be the hottest on record and 2016 could be hotter due to the El Nino weather pattern, the World Meteorological Organization says. Social Sharing El Nino could help make 2016 even hotter than 2015 Thomson Reuters · Posted: Nov 25, 2015 9:22 AM ET | Last Updated: November 25, 2015 Michel Jarraud, Secretary-General of the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) holds a graphic during the presentation of the five-year report on the climate from 2011-2015 at the United Nations European headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland November 25, 2015. This year is set to be the hottest on record. (Denis Balibouse/Reuters) comments This year will be the hottest on record and 2016 could be hotter due to the El Nino weather pattern, the World Meteorological Organization said on Wednesday, warning inaction on climate change could see temperatures rise by 6 degrees Celsius or more. But decisions taken at a summit of world leaders in Paris starting on Monday could keep global temperature rises within 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit) over pre-industrial times, a target set down in 2010 to try to prevent dangerous climate change. Canada warming at twice the global rate, scientists tell premiers conference "Yes, it's still possible to keep to the 2 degree target but the more we wait for action the more difficult it will be," WMO director-general Michel Jarraud told a news conference. "You have scenarios assuming very strong decisions, very quick and sharp reduction of greenhouse gases, and you have other scenarios with business as usual, where you end up with predictions of additional warming of 5, 6 degrees, maybe even more. That will very much depend on the decisions (in Paris)." October heat record smashed by 'incredible amount' 1 C milestone Global average surface temperatures in 2015 were likely to reach what the agency called the "symbolic and significant milestone" of 1C above the pre-industrial era. "This is due to a combination of a strong El Nino and human-induced global warming," the WMO said in a statement. Strongest El Nino in 15 years playing out in 'uncharted territory,' WMO says Jarraud said El Nino may be responsible for 16-20 per cent of the rise and longer-term averages showed temperatures were rising regardless of El Nino or its cooling counterpart La Nina. People cool off from the heat at the Miroir d'Eau (Mirror of Water), a public art piece on the quay of the Garonne river, during a warm summer day in Bordeaux, southwestern France in June. A preliminary estimate based on data from January to October showed the global average surface temperature for 2015 was around 0.73 C above the 1961-1990 average of 14 C. (Regis Duvignau/Reuters) El Nino, a naturally occuring weather pattern marked by warming sea-surface temperatures in the Pacific Ocean, causes extremes such as scorching weather, droughts and flooding around the world. Meteorologists expect El Nino to peak between October and January and to be one of the strongest on record. A preliminary estimate based on data from January to October showed the global average surface temperature for 2015 was around 0.73 C above the 1961-1990 average of 14 C and around 1 C above the pre-industrial 1880-1899 period, the WMO said. "This is all bad news for the planet," Jarraud said. Weather disasters have become twice as frequent in 20 years, UN says The years 2011-2015 have been the hottest five-year period on record, with temperatures about 0.57C (1.01 Fahrenheit) above the 1961-1990 reference period. Global ocean temperatures were unprecedented during the period, and several land areas — including the continental United States, Australia, Europe, South America and Russia — broke temperature records by large margins. "The world's ten warmest years have all occurred since 1998, with eight of them being since 2005," the WMO said. Next year may be even warmer — levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have risen to a new record every year for the past 30 years and El Nino is likely to continue into 2016. "The year whose annual mean temperature is likely to be most strongly influenced by the current El Nino is 2016 rather than 2015," the WMO said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Strongest El Nino in 15 years playing out in 'uncharted territory,' WMO says October heat record smashed by 'incredible amount' Canada warming at twice the global rate, scientists tell premiers conference Weather disasters have become twice as frequent in 20 years, UN says Temperatures in 2015 on track to be record 1 degree C hotter External Links WMO news release Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca