http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/dinosaur-extinction-was-caused-by-asteroid-and-volcanoes-study-says-1.3255057
Dinosaur extinction was caused by asteroid and volcanoes, study says | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Dinosaur extinction was caused by asteroid and volcanoes, study says Social Sharing Technology & Science Dinosaur extinction was caused by asteroid and volcanoes, study says It was a combination of calamities — an asteroid strike followed by vast volcanic eruptions half a world away — that doomed the dinosaurs and many other creatures 66 million years ago, new research says. Social Sharing 'It's time to stop dismissing one cause or the other.... Both contributed,' geologist affirms Thomson Reuters · Posted: Oct 02, 2015 5:14 PM ET | Last Updated: October 5, 2015 It has long been debated among scientists what wiped out dinosaurs like the long-necked Qijianglong guokr seen here. A new paper in the journal Science has an answer. (University of Alberta) It was a combination of calamities — an asteroid strike followed by vast volcanic eruptions half a world away — that doomed the dinosaurs and many other creatures 66 million years ago, according to new research that wades into a decades-long scientific argument. Scientists said Thursday they have determined with new precision the proximity of the dates of the catastrophes: a space rock about 10 kilometres wide striking Mexico's Yucatan region and colossal eruptions in India. A geneticist's take on Jurassic World What killed the dinosaurs? Cosmic chain reaction led to asteroid crash The two events roiled Earth by throwing dust, ash and harmful fumes like carbon dioxide and sulfur dioxide into the air, altering the climate and killing off about 75 per cent of all species in one of Earth's worst mass extinctions. The researchers said the asteroid strike occurred 66.04 million years ago, plus or minus about 30,000 years. They said volcanic eruptions in a region called the Deccan Traps were already underway at a lower intensity but dramatically accelerated after the asteroid strike as if the powerful impact triggered it. The dating method they used found this acceleration began within 50,000 years of the impact, but it could have been in the mere days, months or years afterward. "Within measurement error, they're simultaneous," said volcanologist Loÿc Vanderkluysen of Philadelphia's Drexel University. "The two processes in tandem caused the extinctions," added Paul Renne, director of the Berkeley Geochronology Center and a University of California, Berkeley, geologist, who led the study in the journal Science. 'Contentious' debate Scientists have debated for about 35 years which of the two disasters drove the extinction, some touting one while calling the other inconsequential. "The debate has been contentious," Renne said. "Now it's time to stop dismissing one cause or the other. They clearly happened at the same time and both contributed." "An asteroid 10 kilometres across, about the size of Manhattan, hitting the Earth is traumatic enough. But what followed were the largest volcanic eruptions the Earth had seen in 60 million years. And in their wake would have come 4,000 centuries of changing climate, ocean acidification and acid rains," Vanderkluysen added. The Deccan eruptions lasted 420,000 years after the asteroid and extruded enough lava to cover the equivalent of most of Canada, up to 180 metres. Canadian researchers have previously challenged the asteroid-impact theory of dinosaurs' extinction. A scientist at the Royal Tyrrell Museum in Alberta posited more than a decade ago that a period of global cooling that preceded the catastrophic impact drove temperatures low enough to make the reptiles vulnerable to being wiped out. With files from CBC News CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories What killed the dinosaurs? Alaska duck-billed dinosaur fossils a new species, say researchers Dinosaur museum in small-town Alberta hopes to hit the big time Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca