https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/shuttle-check-slowed-by-antenna-glitch-1.893438
Shuttle check slowed by antenna glitch | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Shuttle check slowed by antenna glitch Social Sharing Technology & Science Shuttle check slowed by antenna glitch Discovery's astronauts surveyed their ship Tuesday for signs of launch damage, but the job was complicated by the failure of the space shuttle's big dish antenna. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Apr 06, 2010 8:07 AM ET | Last Updated: April 6, 2010 Discovery's astronauts surveyed their ship Tuesday for signs of launch damage, but the job was complicated by the failure of the U.S. space shuttle's big dish antenna. The antenna failed to operate after Discovery blasted into orbit Monday on a space station supply run. That leaves the seven astronauts with no way to send or receive big packages of information, like the images of the shuttle's wings and nose that were collected Tuesday morning. Normally, those pictures are sent immediately to Mission Control in Houston so experts can begin scouring them as soon as possible. Because of the antenna malfunction, commander Alan Poindexter and his crew had to store the data on 40-minute tapes that were fed, in turn, into a computer for digital conversion. In all, six tapes were filled, containing 35 to 40 gigabytes of information. All that information will be relayed once the shuttle reaches the International Space Station on Wednesday, delaying analysis. The rendezvous was expected to be trickier than usual, given the antenna trouble. The antenna is supposed to provide radar tracking as the shuttle approaches the station, from 40 kilometres out. Engineers have little confidence the system will be working by then. Not more dangerous Mission Control said the astronauts could rely on other tools, and stressed the linkup would not be any more dangerous. "We're planning on getting there on time," Poindexter assured flight controllers. He said he trained for just such an event two weeks ago back in Houston. Flight director Richard Jones said the main effect is the one-day delay in getting the results from Tuesday's survey, as well as data collected aboard Discovery during liftoff. "The experts who look at that data and process that data and turn that data upside-down, left and right … they're very good at that," he said. "I'm confident that once they get that data, it's going to look and feel like a normal mission at that time." It will take about four hours to transmit all the survey data, using space station resources. Despite the extra work, the astronauts took just 20 minutes longer than usual to complete the normally five-hour survey. Jones characterized the problem as an inconvenience. "Gosh, we're successfully working around it," he told reporters. The astronauts noticed some discoloration on the right wing while scanning it with the 30-metre, laser-tipped inspection boom. But Jones said that was not unusual. This routine inspection of the wings and nose — the most vulnerable parts of a shuttle during re-entry — was put in place after the 2003 Columbia disaster. Columbia was destroyed by a hole in a wing, the result of shedding fuel-tank foam. An estimated three small pieces of foam came off during Discovery's liftoff, but too late to be of any concern, officials said. The laser images — along with zoom-in shuttle pictures taken by the station crew Wednesday — will ascertain whether Discovery was struck by foam or other launch debris. At the same time, engineers are poring over launch pictures in search of more lost foam or possible impacts. This isn't the first time a shuttle's KU-band antenna — a one-metre dish on a two-metre-long assembly — has malfunctioned. It happened in 2000. But this particular breakdown has engineers stumped. Discovery's antenna can move, pointing toward NASA communication satellites, but is essentially nonfunctional in every other way. It's quite possible the antenna will remain unusable throughout the 13-day flight. If that's the case, Mission Control will have to continue reading aloud to the astronauts all of the changes to their work schedule, getting each day off to a slow start. In addition, a second shuttle survey, normally carried out right after undocking, will likely take place while Discovery is still attached to the space station. The first of three spacewalks planned for this mission — to replace an old ammonia tank at the space station — remains set for Friday. The space station is nearly complete. Only three shuttle flights remain after this one. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Discovery heads for space station Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca