http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/new-galapagos-tortoise-1.3283521
New Galapagos giant tortoise species identified | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news New Galapagos giant tortoise species identified Social Sharing Technology & Science New Galapagos giant tortoise species identified Scientists have identified a new species of giant tortoise on the Galapagos Islands, using genetic data to determine that a group of 250 of the slow-moving grazing reptiles was distinct from other tortoise species residing in the Pacific archipelago. Social Sharing There are now 15 species of Galapagos giant tortoise Thomson Reuters · Posted: Oct 22, 2015 9:32 AM ET | Last Updated: October 22, 2015 Ecuador announces the discovery of a new species of giant tortoise on the Galapagos Islands 1:10 comments Scientists have identified a new species of giant tortoise on the Galapagos Islands, using genetic data to determine that a group of 250 of the slow-moving grazing reptiles was distinct from other tortoise species residing in the Pacific archipelago. The newly identified species lives in a 40-square-kilometre (15-square-mile) area of Santa Cruz Island and is as different genetically from the other giant tortoise species on the island as species from other islands, the scientists said on Wednesday. The research differentiated the new Eastern Santa Cruz tortoise, given the scientific name Chelonoidis donfaustoi, from a larger population of about 2,000 tortoises living about 10 kilometres (6 miles) away on the western part of the island that belong to the species Chelonoidis porteri. Scientists long had thought all the giant tortoises on the island were from the same species. The research differentiated the new Eastern Santa Cruz tortoise, given the scientific name Chelonoidis donfaustoi, from a larger population of about 2,000 tortoises living about 10 kilometres (6 miles) away on the western part of the island that belong to the species Chelonoidis porteri. (Washington Tapia) "Its closest relative is not the species on the same island but a species from the neighboring island to the east, San Cristobal," Yale University evolutionary biologist Adalgisa Caccone said. The researchers used two types of genetic data to determine that it merited being recognized as a separate species, bringing to 15 the number of Galapagos giant tortoise species. Distinctive shell shape In addition to genetic differences, the two Santa Cruz Island species also differ in the shape of their shell, with the Eastern Santa Cruz tortoise having one with a more compressed shape, Caccone said. The newly identified species lives in a drier part of the island, Caccone added. Giant tortoises, which can reach some 225 kilograms (500 pounds) are among the famous creatures of the Galapagos Islands closely studied by 19th century British naturalist Charles Darwin. "It is part of the process of understanding the evolutionary history of this iconic group that inspired Charles Darwin when he visited the islands and certainly contributed to the development of his theory of evolution via natural selection," Caccone said. The Galapagos Islands are one of only two locales inhabited by giant tortoises, along with the Indian Ocean's Aldabra Atoll. Galapagos tortoises graze on grasses, leaves, cactus and fruit but can survive up to a year without food or water. The tortoises, classified as endangered, were hunted almost to oblivion by sailors who stashed them in the holds of ships as food during lengthy sea voyages. The new species' scientific name honors a recently retired National Galapagos Park ranger named Fausto Llerena Sanchez. The findings were published in the journal PLOS ONE. Previous Next Hide caption Toggle Fullscreen1 of 0 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Slow and Steady Tortoise de-Extinction Photos Galapagos biodiversity Famed Galapagos tortoise Lonesome George dies 'Extinct' tortoise likely still exists, scientists say External Links Full paper in PLOS ONE Yale University news release Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca