https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/t-rex-was-a-cannibal-1.963766
T. rex was a cannibal | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news T. rex was a cannibal Social Sharing Technology & Science T. rex was a cannibal The most feared of the dinosaurs, Tyrannosaurus rex, appears to have been cannibalistic, say scientists from the U.S. and Canada. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Oct 15, 2010 5:04 PM ET | Last Updated: October 17, 2010 The most feared of the dinosaurs, Tyrannosaurus rex, appears to have been cannibalistic, say scientists from the U.S. and Canada. While reviewing the dinosaur fossils of the T. rex, paleontologists from Yale, the University of Alberta, Montana State University and Florida State University found large teeth marks that suggest bites from other T. rex dinosaurs. "They're the kind of marks that any big carnivore could have made, but T. rex was the only big carnivore in western North America 65 million years ago," said Yale researcher Nick Longrich, in a news release. Longrich, a Canadian, found a number of examples of this type of cannibalism by reviewing other fossil collections in museums. "It's surprising how frequent it appears to have been," Longrich said. "We're not exactly sure what that means." The scientists believe that the marks were made when one dinosaur fed on another, perhaps at the culmination of a fight between the two predators. "Modern big carnivores do this all the time," he said. "It's a convenient way to take out the competition and get a bit of food at the same time." The researchers are buoyed by the findings, which they say offer insight into the largely unknown feeding habits of T. rex, which hunted alone. The research was published Friday in the journal PLoS One. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories T. rex killed by parasite, not combat, scientists say T. Rex had a nose for hunting, Alberta researchers say Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca