https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/moon-landing-astronauts-focus-on-mars-1.854217
Moon-landing astronauts focus on Mars | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Moon-landing astronauts focus on Mars Social Sharing Technology & Science Moon-landing astronauts focus on Mars The astronauts who first landed on the moon aren't dwelling on their small lunar steps. Instead, two of them on Sunday urged mankind to take a giant leap to Mars. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Jul 19, 2009 11:49 PM ET | Last Updated: July 20, 2009 Apollo 11 crew members, from left, Buzz Aldrin, Michael Collins, Neil Armstrong and former NASA Johnson Space Center director Chris Kraft, gather at the National Air and Space Museum in Washington on Sunday. ((Bill Ingalls/NASA/Associated Press)) The astronauts who first landed on the moon aren't dwelling on their small lunar steps. Instead, two of them on Sunday urged mankind to take a giant leap to Mars. In one of their few joint public appearances, the crew of Apollo 11 spoke on the eve of the 40th anniversary of man's first landing on the moon, but didn't get soggy with nostalgia. They instead spoke about the future and the more distant past. On Monday, the three astronauts will get another chance to pitch a Mars trip, this time to someone with a little more sway: U.S. President Barack Obama. Sunday night, a packed crowd at the Smithsonian Institution's National Air and Space Museum — 7,000 people applied in a lottery for 485 seats — didn't get the intimate details of the Eagle's landing on the moon with little fuel left, or what the moon looked like, or what it felt like to be there. Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin plant the U.S. flag on the lunar surface on July 20, 1969. ((NASA/Associated Press)) They got second man on the moon Buzz Aldrin's pitch for Mars. Aldrin said the best way to honour the Apollo astronauts "is to follow in our footsteps; to boldly go again on a new mission of exploration." First man on the moon Neil Armstrong only discussed Apollo 11 for about 11 seconds. He gave a professorial lecture titled "Goddard, governance and geophysics," looking at the inventions and discoveries that led to his historic "small step for a man" on July 20, 1969. Apollo 11 command module pilot Michael Collins, who circled the moon alone while Armstrong and Aldrin walked on it, said the moon was not interesting, but Mars is. "Sometimes I think I flew to the wrong place. Mars was always my favourite as a kid and it still is today," Collins said. "I'd like to see Mars become the focus, just as John F. Kennedy focused on the moon." The founding director of Mission Control in Houston, Chris Kraft, also called on the U.S. administration to revive the country's enthusiasm for space. "What we need is new technology; we have not had that since Apollo," Kraft said at the Smithsonian lecture. "I say to Mr. Obama: 'Let's get on with it. Let's invest in the future.'" CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories YOUR VIEW: Do you remember where you were when man first walked on the moon? What did it mean to yo CBC ARCHIVES: Landing on the moon A timeline of moon landings PHOTO GALLERY: Snapshots of the moon External Links NASA: Celebrating the 'Giant Leap' Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca