https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/cold-winter-may-have-killed-off-30-of-honeybees-1.2625880
Cold winter may have killed off 30% of honeybees | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Cold winter may have killed off 30% of honeybees Social Sharing Technology & Science Cold winter may have killed off 30% of honeybees Canada's harsh winter, which set cold records in many regions, hasn't just been a trial for humans. Some entomologists are concerned that honeybee and butterfly populations will suffer noticable declines. Social Sharing Canadian entomologists concerned that honeybee and butterfly numbers will decline Rachel Bloom · CBC News · Posted: May 02, 2014 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: May 2, 2014 Scientists are investigating honey bees for what's called colony collapse disorder. (Jacky Naegelen/Reuters) comments The harsh winter, which set cold records in many regions, has been a trial for many Canadians. For some bugs, though, the fluctuating cold temperatures could be even more challenging, if not downright fatal. Some entomologists are particularly concerned about how honeybees and butterflies are handling the cold weather. Ontario gives beekeepers financial aid to offset bee deaths "More than 30 per cent of the honeybees could be killed off," says Evelyn Boychuk, an animal biologist and specialist in insect cold tolerance. Honeybees live in hives throughout the winter, unlike other insects, which either migrate or avoid cold by burrowing in soil or moving indoors. The bees rely on nectar and pollen from flowers for fuel, but the prolonged cold weather has also affected the spring growing season. If there are no flowers for honeybees to feed on when they come out of hibernation, the insects could starve. According to Boychuk, the lack of sustenance could also affect butterflies, as they spend the winter as larva, surviving without food all winter and during metamorphosis in the spring. Boychuk says for “sensitive” species such as these, factors like when hibernation begins, how long they hibernate and when they come out can influence their survival rates. John Klymko, director of the Maritime Butterfly Atlas, says although they don’t have records yet, he suspects there won’t be a noticeable decline in butterfly populations this spring. He says butterflies are a resilient species and will most likely have fared well through the winter. Even so, he says extreme winters in the future could affect how many insects "overwinter," a term entomologists use to describe how an insect survives the snowy season. “In general, if habitats become degraded by global climate change, some species will become less resilient or more vulnerable to any sort of hardship,” says Klymko. Mosquitoes and black flies not as affected Although bees might be having a rough go of it this spring, the news for Canadian cottagers is that mosquitoes and blackflies will most likely be as plentiful as always. According to entomologists, these insects are well adapted to the Canadian weather and can survive in the cold. Bad news for cottagers: mosquitoes probably not affected by cold winter. Neither are blackflies. (Canadian Press) Boychuk says mosquitoes and blackflies probably spend the winter under blankets of snow, where temperatures stay around zero degrees Celsius, so they don’t feel the cold the way we do. “A lot of snow cover insulates those habitats that insects like to use in the winter, like soil and leaf litter and things," says Brent Sinclair, an associate professor at the University of Western Ontario who researches cold tolerance in insects. However, in areas with extreme temperatures but little snow cover, there can be what's called "cold frost penetration.” Sinclair says this phenomenon occurs when frost travels deeper into the soil as a result of cold temperatures occurring without snowfall to insulate the soil. Cold frost penetration could expose hibernating insects to lower temperatures, and as a result lead to a decline in insect populations, says Sinclair. He points out that the colder-than-usual temperatures may actually benefit insects such as mosquitoes and blackflies in the reproduction department. During hibernation, a mosquito's metabolic system slows down, allowing it to conserve energy. A longer winter means more stored energy, which could lead to greater reproductive activity in the spring and thus a spike in their numbers. “I could argue that some of these species will actually do better, that they’ll actually be able to produce more eggs for babies early in the season, which could lead to an earlier bug season,” says Sinclair. Even so, it’s hard for entomologists to predict what happens to each species over the course of the winter. “Each insect responds to cold temperatures in different ways,” says Steve Marshall, entomologist from the University of Guelph. “Some have antifreeze like we have in our cars that stops them from freezing. Some of them avoid cold temperatures by going down into the soil and into tree trunks. Some leave town altogether. Some just die and repopulate the area from southern locations every year,” says Marshall. “It’s very difficult to tell." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Ontario gives beekeepers financial aid to offset bee deaths New farming guidelines in place to protect honeybees Honeybee deaths Ontario says insecticides linked to bee deaths Pesticide linked to bee deaths to get tighter regulation Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca