http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/cosmic-chain-reaction-led-to-death-of-dinosaurs-scientists-say-1.657911
Cosmic chain reaction led to death of dinosaurs, scientists say | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Cosmic chain reaction led to death of dinosaurs, scientists say Social Sharing Technology & Science Cosmic chain reaction led to death of dinosaurs, scientists say The asteroid many believe caused the extinction of the dinosaurs some 65 million years ago has been traced to an earlier collision of larger asteroids about 95 million years earlier, scientists said Wednesday. Social Sharing Distant asteroid collision likely sent fragment to Earth CBC News · Posted: Sep 06, 2007 1:59 PM ET | Last Updated: September 6, 2007 The asteroid many believe caused the extinction of the dinosaurs some 65 million years ago has been traced to an earlier collision of larger asteroids about 95 million years earlier,scientists said Wednesday. Writing in the scientific journal Nature, researcher William Bottke and co-authors laid out a scenario of the origin of the asteroid that landed on Earth in the Cretaceous Era, creating the enormous Chicxulub crater in Mexico's Yucatan peninsula. Bottke, a researcher at the Southwest Research Institute in Boulder, Colo., said the collision of two asteroids between Jupiter and Mars about 160 million years ago set about a chain reaction that created a family of asteroids and sent fragments hurtling towards the sun. Researchers said they were90 per cent certain that the Yucatan impact crater was caused by one of these fragments. "We find that this asteroid shower is the most likely source of the Chicxulub impactor that produced the … mass extinctionevent 65 million years ago," the scientists wrote in their paper. The extinction of the dinosaurs, who had lived on Earth for about 165 million years, is seen as a turning point in the planet's history, a monumental occurrence that made it possible for mammalsto thrive. The researchers came upon their discovery while analyzing the Baptistina family of asteroids in the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter, some 160 million kilometres from Earth. Using computer simulations to trace the origin of this family of asteroids based upon their present movements, the researchers discovered the family was likely the result of a collision of two asteroids — one about 60 km wide and the other 170 km wide. The researchers speculate some of the fragments created during this collision gained enough energy to move out of their orbit and— with the help of the gravitational pull of Mars and Jupiter — were sent hurtling towards the Earth and other planets closer to the centre of the solar system. The chemical composition ofpresent-day fragments in the Baptistina family match that of traces found at Chicxulub, the researchers say. The collision theory also supports other evidence that has shown that the frequency of large-impact bodies hitting Earth and the moon rose by a factor of two over the long-term average during the last 100 million years, suggesting whatever event that led to the rise in space debris must have occurred before then, the scientists said. The Earth was likely not the only object in our solar system to be hit by a remnant of the collision, the authors said.The large Tycho crater on the moon, formed 108 million years ago, was also likely caused from the initial impact, they wrote. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Dinosaurs had slow rise to prominence, study finds Protein study reveals T. rex was a little bit chicken Asteroids: Should we act now to avoid doomsday? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca