http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/extreme-el-nino-weather-to-double-in-frequency-study-says-1.2503897
Extreme El Nino weather to double in frequency, study says | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Extreme El Nino weather to double in frequency, study says Social Sharing Technology & Science Extreme El Nino weather to double in frequency, study says The extreme El Nino weather events that fuel deadly natural disasters around the world are on track to occur twice as often — every 10 years — over the next century, climate change scientists warn. Social Sharing Calamitous weather patterns on track to occur every 10 instead of every 20 years CBC News · Posted: Jan 20, 2014 3:52 PM ET | Last Updated: January 21, 2014 Cracked ground caused by drought at the Las Canoas Lake is shown in Nicaragua in 2010. (Oswaldo Rivas/Reuters) The extreme El Nino events that fuel deadly weather around the world will occur twice as often over the next century, climate change scientists warn. The intense meteorological events typically occur every 20 years, but an international team of researchers has published a report in the journal Nature Climate Change that suggests extreme El Ninos are now on track to happen once a decade. Extreme El Nino events are known to trigger droughts, torrential rain and flooding around the world. (Reuters) If these most powerful El Ninos do materialize that frequently, they will likely spawn more natural disasters. The last extreme El Nino in 1997-1998 killed about 23,000 people and caused an estimated $35 billion in damage. Unlike conventional El Nino events, which first develop in the western Pacific, the more unusual extreme El Ninos build as the water warms up over the cold and dry eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean. This temperature change throws off worldwide rainfall patterns. 20 climate models The rainfall shift is known as "reorganization," and is to blame for causing global weather catastrophes such as droughts, floods and bush fires. Climate change draft report predicts war, heat waves, starvation World temperatures go off the chart by 2047, study says "During an extreme El Nino event, countries in the western Pacific such as Australia and Indonesia experienced devastating droughts and wild fire," said lead author Wenju Cai with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Australia's national science agency. Extreme El Nino events are likely to double in frequency as the world warms, leading to direct impacts on extreme weather events worldwide - Wenju Cai, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation Meanwhile, devastating floods occurred in the eastern equatorial region of Ecuador and northern Peru, he said. The new paper involved an analysis of 20 climate models that simulated extreme rainfall. The scientists found that the warming over the next century of waters in the eastern Pacific Ocean due to climate change would cause a spike in the number of extreme El Nino events. Between 1890 and 1990, according to the models, extreme El Ninos occurred about every 20 years; from 1990 to 2090, this ramps up to every 10 years. Previous Next Hide caption Toggle Fullscreen1 of 0 "This latest research based on rainfall patterns suggests that extreme El Nino events are likely to double in frequency as the world warms, leading to direct impacts on extreme weather events worldwide," Cai concluded. Climate models show this trend should continue as long as greenhouse gas emissions remain unchecked and the planet continues to warm up. Scientists have been trying to establish a connection between climate change and El Nino events for more than 20 years, the study's authors said. "This research is the first comprehensive examination of the issue to produce robust and convincing results," said Mike McPhaden, one of the paper's authors and a researcher with the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Extreme weather cost Canada record $3.2B, insurers say Climate change draft report predicts war, heat waves, starvation World temperatures go off the chart by 2047, study says Sea ice loss in Canada's north, 1968-2010 Photos Extreme weather around the world ARCHIVES: Climate change Climate change could cost Canada billions: report External Links Increasing frequency of extreme El Niño events due to greenhouse warming Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca