https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/walruses-forced-ashore-by-ice-melt-1.961571
Walruses forced ashore by ice melt | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Walruses forced ashore by ice melt Social Sharing Technology & Science Walruses forced ashore by ice melt Tens of thousands of walruses have come ashore in northwest Alaska because the sea ice they normally rest on has melted. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Sep 14, 2010 3:19 PM ET | Last Updated: September 14, 2010 Tens of thousands of walruses have come ashore in northwest Alaska because the sea ice they normally rest on has melted. U.S. government scientists say this massive move to shore by walruses is unusual in the United States. It has happened at least twice before, however, in 2007 and 2009. In those years Arctic sea ice also was at or near record low levels. The walruses "stretch out for one mile (1.6 kilometres) or more. This is just packed shoulder-to-shoulder," U.S. Geological Survey biologist Anthony Fischbach said in a telephone interview from Alaska. He estimated their number at tens of thousands. Scientists with two federal agencies are most concerned about the one-ton (0.90 metric tons) female walruses stampeding and crushing each other and their smaller calves near Point Lay, Alaska, on the Chukchi Sea. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is trying to change airplane flight patterns to avoid spooking the animals. Officials have also asked locals to be judicious about hunting, said agency spokesman Bruce Woods. Arctic animals under threat The Pacific walrus is one of 17 Arctic species listed as being threatened with extinction by rapid climate change and ocean acidification, said a report released Monday by the Center for Biological Diversity and Care for the Wild International, a Tuscon, Ariz.-based non-profit organization. The other species profiled in the report are the: Arctic fox. Polar bear. Ringed seal. Bearded seal. Harp seal. Ribbon seal. Gray whale. Beluga whale. Bowhead whale. Narwhal. Sea butterfly. Kittlitz’s murrelet. Spectacled eider. Ivory gull. Caribou/reindeer. Muskox. The federal government is in a year-long process to determine if walruses should be put on the endangered species list. Fischbach said scientists do not know how long the walrus camp-out will last, but there should be enough food for all of them. During normal summers, the males go off to the Bering Sea, while the females raise their young in the Chukchi. The females rest on sea ice and dive from it to the sea floor for clams and worms. "When they no longer have a place to rest, they need to go some place and it's a long commute," Fischbach said. "This is directly related to the lack of sea ice." Loss of sea ice in the Chukchi this summer has surprised scientists. because last winter lots of old established sea ice floated into the region, said Mark Serreze, director of the National Snow and Ice Data Center in Boulder, Colo. That has disappeared, however. Although last year was a slight improvement over previous years, Serreze says there's been a long-term decline that he blames on global warming. "We'll likely see more summers like this," he said. "There is no sign of Arctic recovery." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links U.S. Geological Survey walrus research site U.S. Geological Survey walrus research site U.S. Geological Survey walrus research site Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca