https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/retired-alberta-teacher-honoured-for-dinosaur-discovery-1.722649
Retired Alberta teacher honoured for dinosaur discovery | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Retired Alberta teacher honoured for dinosaur discovery Social Sharing Technology & Science Retired Alberta teacher honoured for dinosaur discovery A horned dinosaur discovered by an Alberta junior high school science teacher in 1972 has been officially named a new species, researchers said Wednesday. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Oct 02, 2008 1:20 PM ET | Last Updated: October 2, 2008 A horned dinosaur discovered by an Alberta junior high school science teacher in 1972 has been officially named a new species, researchers said Wednesday. University of Alberta paleontologists said the fossil specimens found in a bonebed along Pipestone Creek near Grande Prairie by Al Lakusta, now retired, were known to be similar to those found in southwestern Alberta in the 1940s. That dinosaur also belonged to the genus Pachyrhinosaurus, which translates to "thick-nosed lizard." But it took a detailed examination to determine that the bones were from a distinct species. The new dinosaur species will be known as Pachyrhinosaurus lakustai to honour its discoverer, according to Philip Currie, Canada Research chair of dinosaur paleobiology from the University of Alberta. The discovery was announced at a ceremony in Grande Prairie on Wednesday. Lakusta made the discovery at a time when northwestern Alberta was not known for its dinosaur bones, Currie said in announcing the dinosaur's name. As a result, Lakusta, 66, an amateur fossil collector, did the excavating and storing of the bones himself until the Royal Tyrrell Museum began an official excavation in 1986. The site is notable because of the density of bones discovered: Researchers at University of Alberta said the bonebed contains up to 100 bones per square metre, with 3,500 bones — including 14 skulls — having been removed from the site so far. The researchers said the density, placement and state of the bones suggests a Pachyrhinosaurus herd may have died during the attempted crossing of a river during a flood about 72.5 million years ago, during the late Cretaceous period. Their carcasses then washed downriver where they were torn apart by carnivores, the researcher said. "The density of the Pipestone Creek bonebed is exceptional and surpasses many of Alberta's other ... bonebed sites," Currie said in a statement. "The preservation of the material is outstanding and was easy to collect. The number of bones, from all age groups, made complex investigations possible regarding behaviour and growth patterns." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Dinosaurs lucked into dominance, researchers suggest Scientists unearth earliest horned dino in Alberta Dinosaur discovery named after Alberta rancher External Links River of Death and Discovery Dinosaur Centre River of Death and Discovery Dinosaur Centre Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca