http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/global-warming-continues-as-temperatures-rise-study-finds-1.3100345
Global warming continues as temperatures rise, study finds | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Global warming continues as temperatures rise, study finds Social Sharing Technology & Science Global warming continues as temperatures rise, study finds An apparent slowdown in the pace of global warming in recent years may be an illusion based on skewed data, according to a study on Thursday that found no break in a trend of rising temperatures. Social Sharing Experts find 'no discernible decrease' in warming this century Thomson Reuters · Posted: Jun 04, 2015 1:45 PM ET | Last Updated: June 4, 2015 A new study says global warming may not be slowing down as previously thought. In 2013, the UN panel of climate experts reported a 'hiatus' in warming since about 1998, despite a rising man-made emissions of greenhouse gases. (NASA/Handout via Reuters) comments An apparent slowdown in the pace of global warming in recent years may be an illusion based on skewed data, according to a study on Thursday that found no break in a trend of rising temperatures. In 2013, the UN panel of climate experts reported a "hiatus" in warming since about 1998, despite rising man-made emissions of greenhouse gases. That heartened sceptics who say the risks of climate change have been exaggerated. Getting past climate change chaos to find Canada's eco-affluence: Don Pittis Carbon dioxide global levels surpass daunting milestone The new U.S. study in the journal Science, based on a re-analysis of worldwide temperature data, found no pause in the warming blamed by most climate experts for producing heatwaves, downpours and higher sea levels. "There is no discernible ... decrease in the rate of warming between the second half of the 20th century and the first 15 years of the 21st century," experts led by the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) wrote. The rate of temperature rise from 2000-14 was 0.116 C a decade, almost identical to 0.113 C a decade from 1950-99, they wrote. Disagreement on hiatus theory Some other experts said however the idea of a hiatus was still valid, since warming had probably slowed this century if compared to fast rates in the 1980s and 1990s. "It is curious that a comparison with these decades was not included in this new study," said Richard Allan, a professor of climate science at the University of Reading. Thomas Stocker, a Swiss scientist who co-led the UN report in 2013 that found a hiatus, cautioned it was hard to pin down exact causes of warming over short periods because of big natural swings. In recent years, scientists have proposed many explanations for the hiatus, such as changes in the sun's output or sun-dimming ash from volcanic eruptions. Thomas Karl of the NOAA, the lead author of Thursday's study, told Reuters that such factors might be slowing temperature rises. If they wear off as expected, "we may be talking of warming faster than in the last part of the 20th century," he said. Measuring ocean temperatures Among new data, Thursday's study said that a shift to measuring sea temperatures by unmanned floating buoys in recent years may have led to underestimates of ocean warming. Water sampled by buoys is typically 0.12 C cooler than the former measurements by ships because heat from ships' engines nudges up thermometers. Governments are meeting this week in Bonn, Germany, to work on a new UN deal to slow warming, due in Paris in December. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Blog Ozone treaty a success - now how about climate change? Is there a link between climate change and terrorism? Analysis Getting past climate change chaos to find Canada's eco-affluence: Don Pittis How will Canada meet its new emissions reduction target? External Links National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca