http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/obama-urges-world-to-follow-u-s-lead-on-climate-change-1.2775037
Obama urges world to follow U.S. lead on climate change | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Obama urges world to follow U.S. lead on climate change Social Sharing Technology & Science Obama urges world to follow U.S. lead on climate change In the first international test for his climate-change strategy, President Barack Obama pressed world leaders Tuesday to follow the United States' lead on the issue during a one-day United Nations summit. Social Sharing World leaders pledge money, targets to fight climate change The Associated Press · Posted: Sep 23, 2014 9:22 AM ET | Last Updated: September 23, 2014 Highlights of U.S. president's speech in NYC 3:41 comments In the first international test for his climate-change strategy, President Barack Obama pressed world leaders Tuesday to follow the United States' lead on the issue, even as a one-day United Nations summit revealed the many obstacles that still stand in the way of wider agreements to reduce heat-trapping pollution. "The United States has made ambitious investments in clean energy and ambitious reductions in our carbon emissions," Obama said. "Today I call on all countries to join us, not next year or the year after that, but right now. Because no nation can meet this global threat alone." U.N. Climate Summit: 4 things to know about the talks Obama was the headliner at a marathon session of world leaders who promised to spend billions of dollars to take better care of the planet. Tuesday's one-day meeting at the annual UN General Assembly involving more than 100 world leaders was a forum for non-binding pledges. It was designed to lay the groundwork for a new global treaty to tackle climate change in December 2015, but it also revealed the sharp differences that divide countries on matters such as deforestation, carbon pollution and methane leaks from oil and gas production: Brazil, a key player in deforestation, said it wouldn't sign a pledge to halt deforestation by 2030. The United States decided not to join 73 countries in supporting a price on carbon, which Congress had indicated it would reject. And minutes after Obama said "nobody gets a pass," China's Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli insisted the world treat developing nations, including China, differently than developed nations, allowing them release more heat-trapping pollution. China has signed a carbon-pricing agreement. "Today we must set the world on a new course," United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon said in opening remarks. "Climate change is the defining issue of our age. It is defining our present. Our response will define our future." In some ways, the climate summit answered that call. The Current: Stephen Harper skips UN Climate Summit, environmentalists cry foul Europe announces new emissions targets The European Union said its member nations would cut greenhouse gases so that by 2030 they would be 40 per cent below the 1990 level. The vow also calls for using renewable energy for 27 per cent of the bloc's power needs and to increase energy efficiency by 30 per cent. The United States will not release new emissions targets until early next year. Canada spotlights vehicle emissions standards at UN climate talks More than 150 countries set the first-ever deadline on Tuesday to end deforestation by 2030, but the feasibility of that goal was eroded when a key player, Brazil, said it would not join. Forests are important because they absorb the main greenhouse gas, carbon dioxide. The United States, Canada and the entire European Union signed onto a declaration to halve forest loss by 2020 and eliminate deforestation entirely by 2030. Actor Leonardo DiCaprio, currently serving as UN climate change ambassador, echoed The World Bank in calling for nations to put a price tag or tax on carbon to pressure people and countries to cut back. He is seen speaking in front of UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon. (Richard Drew/Associated Press) And world leaders promised in their non-binding remarks to spend a total of at least $5 billion to make the world more sustainable. That often includes turning away from the burning of coal, oil and gas and away from the destruction of the world's carbon-absorbing forests. Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, stressed it could be done without harming the economy. He said over the next seven years, the European Union would provide $3 billion euros (nearly $3.9 billion US) to help developing countries become more sustainable. "The European Union is on track to meet our targets and at same time we have seen our economy grow," Barroso. "We prove climate protection and a strong economy must go hand in hand." World Bank leads carbon pricing push before UN Climate Summit France promised $1 billion US. Korea pledged $100 million. Others, like Chile, pledged cuts in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. When it comes to forests, if the goal is met, the U.N. says it would be the equivalent of taking every car off the road in the world. A group of companies, countries, and nonprofits also pledged to restore more than 1 million square miles (259 million hectares) of forest worldwide by 2030. Norway vowed to spend $350 million to protect forests in Peru and another $100 million in Liberia. World Bank leads carbon pricing push before UN Climate Summit Japan to issue new goals Japan, which had relaxed earlier promised targets, vowed to issue new goals early next year and become a model for a low-carbon society. It also said it was launching a satellite to monitor and verify emissions. Canada pledged to make cars and trucks more fuel efficient. Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro used the opportunity to chastise "polluting powers" for causing an "evil of such planetary dimensions" and then wanting to barter their way out of their responsibilities. Seychelles President James Michel called small island nations like his "victims of this pollution" and said it was up to the countries that burn the most coal, oil and gas to do the most. "If they don't do something, the Earth will not survive and that will be the end of us all," Michel said in an interview before the start of the summit. Ban, actor Leonardo DiCaprio, former U.S. Vice President Al Gore and Rajendra K. Pachauri, who headed the Nobel Prize-winning panel of scientists that studied the issue, warned that time was short. By 2020, Ban said, the world must reduce greenhouse gases to prevent an escalating level of warming that world leaders five years ago called dangerous. Leaders in 2009 pledged to keep world temperatures from increasing by another 2 degrees Celsius. Global CO2 emissions break record ahead of UN Climate Summit Pachauri and Ban told world leaders the effects of global warming are already here, pointing to a U.N. building that flooded during the devastating Superstorm Sandy in 2012. Pachauri said it will get worse with droughts, storms, food and water shortages. He foresaw even more violent climate-driven conflicts. And, Pachauri said, "a steady rise in our death toll, especially among the world's poorest. How on Earth can we leave our children with a world like this?" CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Leonardo DiCaprio urges UN to solve climate crisis UN Climate Summit: 4 things to know about the talks The Current: Stephen Harper skips UN Climate Summit, environmentalists cry foul World Bank leads carbon pricing push before UN Climate Summit Global CO2 emissions break record ahead of UN Climate Summit Global investors push for carbon pricing ahead of UN climate summit External Links UN Climate Summit Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca