https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/worm-like-fossil-a-distant-cousin-of-humans-1.1137702
Worm-like fossil a 'distant cousin' of humans | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Worm-like fossil a 'distant cousin' of humans Social Sharing Technology & Science Worm-like fossil a 'distant cousin' of humans A finger-sized creature unearthed in the Canadian Rockies is the oldest known member of the group that contains all animals with a backbone, including humans. Social Sharing The Canadian Press · Posted: Mar 05, 2012 9:18 AM ET | Last Updated: March 5, 2012 A tiny worm-like creature that swam the seas half a billion years ago is not exactly the first thing that comes to mind when you think about who you share your genes with. But according to a newly released analysis of a fossil unearthed in the Canadian Rockies a century ago, the finger-sized creature — known as Pikaia gracilens — is the oldest known member of the chordates — a group containing all animals with a backbone, including humans. "It's a very, very distant cousin," Jean-Bernard Caron, an assistant professor of ecology and evolutionary biology at the University of Toronto and the study's co-author, said in an interview. "We share the same genes...we share some of the basic features." The fossil of Pikaia gracilens was discovered in 1911 in the Burgess Shale fossil beds in Yoho National Park in Western Canada. (University of Toronto/Canadian Press) However, the chance that humans might have evolved from the five-centemetre-long creature is a "long shot," cautioned Caron. The research, published Monday in the British scientific journal Biological Reviews, determined Pikaia has a notochord, a flexible rod found in the embryos of all chordates that makes up part of the backbone in vertebrates. It also found evidence of a nerve cord and vascular system and extensive myomeres, blocks of skeletal muscle tissue that are characteristic of chordates. Professor Simon Conway Morris of the University of Cambridge, the study's lead author, said the findings of myomeres clearly places Pikaia as the planet's most primitive chordate. The Burgess Shale The Burgess Shale is considered one of the most important fossil fields in the world due to age, diversity and the excellent preservation of its fossilized animals, which were mostly soft-bodied invertebrates. It was discovered in 1909 by American paleontologist Charles Doolittle Walcott on the southwest side of a ridge between Mount Field and Wapta Mountain, in Yoho National Park. The fossils date back to the Cambrian Period around 505 million years ago, when North America was rotated 90 degrees relative to its current position and British Columbia was located under a tropical sea near the equator. The importance of the site was recognized by UNESCO World Heritage Site designation in 1981. Three years later, it was integrated into the Canadian Rocky Mountain Parks UNESCO World Heritage Site which includes Banff, Jasper, Yoho and Kootenay National Parks and Assiniboine, Hamber and Robson Provincial Parks. "The discovery of myomeres is the smoking gun that we have long been seeking," Morris said in a news release. "Next time we put the family photograph on the mantelpiece, there in the background will be Pikaia." Pikaia likely swam above the sea floor by moving its body in a series of side-to-side curves. The fossil was discovered in 1911 in the Burgess Shale fossil beds in Yoho National Park in Western Canada. It was placed in the care of the Smithsonian Institute and stored away in Washington for decades until the early 70s, when Morris referred to it as a likely chordate in a scientific paper. Members of the Royal Ontario Museum went back to the fossil beds in the 1990s and found more specimens. Caron, who arrived at the ROM in 2006 as curator of invertebrate palaeontology, teamed up with Morris to better describe the Pikaia. The findings are prompting researchers at the ROM to return to the fossil beds this summer to look for more specimens to help determine if there are chordate cousins of Pikaia, Caron said "Was Pikaea alone at the time, I don't think so, I think there were more." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Fossils of ancient sea creature discovered 66-leg predator roamed ancient B.C. sea floor External Links Abstract of the article Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca