http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/global-heat-record-broken-for-june-following-record-may-1.2713463
Global heat record broken for June, following record May | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Global heat record broken for June, following record May Social Sharing Technology & Science Global heat record broken for June, following record May The globe is on a hot streak, setting a heat record in June. That's after the world broke a record in May. Social Sharing Records driven by unusually hot oceans The Associated Press · Posted: Jul 21, 2014 1:48 PM ET | Last Updated: July 21, 2014 The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration announced Monday that last month's average global temperature was 16.2 C, which is 0.72 degrees higher than the 20th-century average. (iStock) The globe is on a hot streak, setting a heat record in June. That's after the world broke a record in May. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration announced Monday that last month's average global temperature was 16.2 C, which is 0.72 degrees higher than the 20th-century average. It beat 2010's old record by one-twentieth of a degree. Global warming means 'normal' weather expectations must change often, UN says While one-twentieth of a degree doesn't sound like much, in temperature records it's like winning a horse race by several lengths, said NOAA climate monitoring chief Derek Arndt. "We are living in the steroid era of the climate system," Arndt said. Arndt said both the June and May records were driven by unusually hot oceans, especially the Pacific and Indian oceans. Heat records in June broke on every continent but Antarctica. The heat hit New Zealand, northern South America, Greenland, central Africa and southern Asia particularly hard. No global warming 'hiatus' for extreme heat days In Canada, June was a "pretty blasé" half degree warmer than average, estimated Environment Canada meteorologist Dave Phillips. However, he noted in an interview with CBC News that this is just an estimate, as the department analyzes temperature trends on a seasonal rather than a monthly basis, and hasn't yet done so for the summer months. As for the U.S., it had only its 33rd hottest June. All 12 of the world's monthly heat records have been set after 1997, more than half in the last decade. All the global cold monthly records were set before 1917. And with a likely El Nino this year — the warming of the tropical Pacific which influences the world's weather and increases global temperatures — it is starting to look like another extra warm year, said University of Arizona climate scientist Jonathan Overpeck. The first six months of the year are the third warmest first six months on record, coming behind 2010 and 1998, according to NOAA Global temperature records go back to 1880 and this is the 352nd hotter than average month in a row. "This is what global warming looks like," Overpeck said in an email. "Not record hot everywhere all the time, but certainly a reflection that the odds of record hot are going up everywhere around the planet." With a file from CBC News CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Global warming means 'normal' weather expectations must change often, UN says Climate change 'has moved firmly into the present,' U.S. report says No global warming 'hiatus' for extreme heat days B.C. heat wave: 3 hottest spots and 20 records broken Sunday Saskatchewan bracing for fires in dry areas as heat wave looms Climate change: May breaks global temperature record External Links NOAA global analysis for June 2014 Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca