https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/huge-waves-detected-in-arctic-waters-for-1st-time-1.2725336
Huge waves detected in Arctic waters for 1st time | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Huge waves detected in Arctic waters for 1st time Social Sharing Technology & Science Huge waves detected in Arctic waters for 1st time For the first time, waves rearing as high as the second-floor windows of a building have been detected in a part of the Arctic Ocean that's normally calmed by ice. Social Sharing Melting ice leaves open water, giving waves a chance to build up CBC News · Posted: Aug 01, 2014 2:25 PM ET | Last Updated: August 1, 2014 Wave sensors record the height of waves. A researcher is currently on the Beaufort Sea deploying more of them. (J. Thomson/University of Washington) comments Waves rearing as high as the second-floor windows of a building have been detected in the Beaufort Sea for the first time. Arctic waves are normally kept in check by sea ice, which has traditionally covered large areas of the Arctic Ocean even in the summer. But warmer temperatures as a result of climate change are melting away more and more of that ice. A wave gauge deployed in the Beaufort Sea in the western Arctic in 2012 has already measured some of the consequences, recording wave heights of almost five metres during a September storm. "That's a lot bigger than anything previously recorded up there," wrote University of Washington researcher Jim Thomson in a blog post about the results. "Of course, the ice had melted back a lot farther than anything previously recorded too." Arctic sea ice hits record low In a new study released this week in the journal Geophysical Research Letters, Thomson and his colleague Erick Rogers at the Naval Research Lab at Stennis Space Centre in Mississippi officially reported the data collected by the wave gauge between mid-August and October 2012. Read the full paper They also calculated the relationship between the available distance of open water and the size of the waves that could potentially form. As the open water between ice-covered areas increases, the wind gets more opportunity to build up waves. That means the potential size and power of the waves increase dramatically. Those waves, in turn, may gain enough power to smash away more sea ice, generating a "feedback mechanism which drives the Arctic system toward an ice-free summer," they wrote in their paper. In his blog post on the website of the American Geophysical Union, Thomson added, "Bigger, more powerful waves could also accelerate erosion of the Arctic Ocean coasts, which are already breaking down rapidly from the effects of climate change and melting of permafrost." Thomson is currently out on the Beaufort Sea deploying more sensors to track how wave heights are influenced by the ice, open water and weather conditions. The research was funded by the U.S. Office of Naval Research. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories 2012 broke sea level, sea ice records, climate report shows Arctic sea ice levels hit record low Arctic sea ice polluted with microplastics Arctic sea ice volume up 50% Arctic ice level rebounds from record 2012 low Eastern Arctic temperatures likely at 120,000-year high External Links Full paper in Geophysical Research Letters Jim Thomson's blog post on AGU website University of Washington news release Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca