https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/doomsday-clock-2018-1.4502382
Scientists move Doomsday Clock ahead to 2 minutes to midnight | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Scientists move Doomsday Clock ahead to 2 minutes to midnight Social Sharing Technology & Science Scientists move Doomsday Clock ahead to 2 minutes to midnight The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists has moved the Doomsday Clock ahead by 30 seconds to two minutes to midnight, the symbolic time of civilization's destruction. Social Sharing 2nd time the clock, used as a metaphor to measure how close we are to destruction, has moved 30 seconds Nicole Mortillaro · CBC News · Posted: Jan 25, 2018 9:58 AM ET | Last Updated: January 25, 2018 Robert Rosner, chairman of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, right, joined by Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists member Lawrence Krauss, left, moves the minute hand of the Doomsday Clock to two minutes to midnight during a news conference at the National Press Club in Washington. (Carolyn Kaster/Associated Press) The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists has moved the Doomsday Clock ahead by 30 seconds — to 11:58 p.m. — the symbolic time of civilization's destruction. "It is with considerable concern that we set the Doomsday Clock, as of today," Rachel Bronson, president and CEO of the organization, said during a news conference at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C. "It is two minutes to midnight." The clock, first used in 1947, is a metaphor meant to measure how close we are to destroying the world. This is the second time the clock has come this close to midnight. The first was in 1953, after both the U.S. and Soviet Union tested their first thermonuclear bombs within six months of one another. 'To call the world's nuclear state dire is to understate the danger and its immediacy.' - Rachel Bronson, Bulletin of Atomic Scientists The first time the Doomsday Clock moved was after the Soviet Union successfully tested its first atomic bomb in 1949. It moved from the original seven minutes to midnight, to three minutes to midnight. Lawrence Krauss, chair of the Bulletin, said, "The danger of some sort of nuclear catastrophe is greater than it was in the Cold War." In 1991, at the end of the Cold War, the hands moved the farthest they've ever been: 17 minutes to midnight. In an uncharacteristic move, the scientists moved the clock by 30 seconds in 2017, to 2½ minutes to midnight. Typically, the clock is moved by the minute. The bulletin said at the time: "The probability of global catastrophe is very high, and the actions needed to reduce the risks of disaster must be taken very soon." There have been heightened tensions between the U.S. and North Korea over the past few months, which Bronson said did influence the changing of the time. "To call the world's nuclear state dire is to understate the danger and its immediacy," said Bronson. Just two days into the new year, U.S. President Donald Trump responded to a remark by North Korean leader Kim Jong-un that he had a nuclear button on his desk by tweeting: "North Korean Leader Kim Jong Un just stated that the 'Nuclear Button is on his desk at all times. Will someone from his depleted and food starved regime please inform him that I too have a Nuclear Button, but it is a much bigger & more powerful one than his, and my Button works!" North Korean Leader Kim Jong Un just stated that the “Nuclear Button is on his desk at all times.” Will someone from his depleted and food starved regime please inform him that I too have a Nuclear Button, but it is a much bigger &amp; more powerful one than his, and my Button works! &mdash;@realDonaldTrump While there has been some easing of tensions between North and South Korea after they agreed to participate in the Winter Olympics as one team, there are concerns about North Korea's nuclear missiles. The country has reportedly conducted several tests of its rockets, with the latest — capable of delivering a nuclear warhead to North America — just last November. More than a nuclear risk The group of scientists cited concerns of climate change and technological innovation, including artificial intelligence and cyber threats, in moving up the time. Sivan Kartha, who heads the bulletin's science and security board and is a senior scientist at the Stockholm Environmental Institute, emphasized concerns over climate change, noting that in 1953, the only time the clock has been this close to midnight, it wasn't even an issue. "Since that time what we've dumped into the atmosphere has increased sixfold. And as a consequence, Earth has warmed by one degree," Kartha said. He noted decreasing ice in the Arctic, as well as catastrophic events such as the wildfires across the U.S. and Canada. The group also cited concerns over public distrust of political leaders and the media, saying it is drawing away from the focus on real threats. "The nuclear situation this year is a strong concern," said Krauss. "We feel the world is getting more dangerous." About the Author Nicole Mortillaro Senior Reporter, Science Nicole has an avid interest in all things science. As an amateur astronomer, Nicole can be found looking up at the night sky appreciating the marvels of our universe. She is the editor of the Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada and the author of several books. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories 'We're going to be okay': Humans not destined for extinction, says former NASA chair Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca