https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/extra-terrestrial-impact-did-in-mammoths-scientists-1.690037
Extra-terrestrial impact did in mammoths: scientists | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Extra-terrestrial impact did in mammoths: scientists Social Sharing Technology & Science Extra-terrestrial impact did in mammoths: scientists A thin layer of carbon and debris laid down 12,900 years ago supports the theory that the extinction of mammoths and other ice-age mammals was caused by an 'extra-terrestial' event. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Sep 25, 2007 12:04 PM ET | Last Updated: September 25, 2007 A thin layer of carbon and debris laid down 12,900 yearsago supports the theory that the extinction of mammoths and other large mammals was caused by an "extra-terrestrial" event, researchers reported Tuesday. The cause of the suddendisappearanceof 35 kinds of mammal — including mastodons, ground sloths, horses andcamels — from North America is a matter of continuing controversy, withhuman overhuntingbeing the main alternative theory to sudden cooling. The 26 authors ofTuesday's paper, published in theProceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, come down on the side of sudden cooling, based on studies of10 North American sites from the Clovis Period, an erawhen humans hunted mastodons. Itended suddenly about the same time the carbon appeared. They suggest that "multiple ET airbursts along with surface impacts" — possibly by an asteroid, comet or meteorite —and the massive wildfires that followed laid down a three-centimetre carbon-rich "black layer" with elements of soot, charcoal and glass-like carbon over the Clovis sites. The base of the layer coincides with the beginning of theYounger Dryas cooling period,a 1,000-year ice age that began about the same time that Clovis culture ended. The researchers said there were Clovis tools and"megafauna" bones under the layer, but none in or on top of it. "We don't have a smoking gun for our theory, but we sure have a lot of shell casings," Brown University planetary geologist Peter Schultz said in a statement. "Taken together, the markers found in the samples offer intriguing evidence that North America had a major impact event about 12,900 years ago." He was one of the researchers, led byRichard Firestone of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in Berkeley, Calif. The Clovis culture had spears capable of piercing a mammoth and might have lived by following herds of the giant animals. The Clovis population declined as the animals disappeared, to be replaced by Folsom culture, which arose as the continent warmed after the Younger Dryas period. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Cosmic chain reaction led to death of dinosaurs, scientists say Alberta scientists find prehistoric horse Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca