http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/cavers-homo-naledi-1.3222742
Cavers recount discovery of ancient human relative Homo naledi | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Cavers recount discovery of ancient human relative Homo naledi Social Sharing Technology & Science Cavers recount discovery of ancient human relative Homo naledi On the night of Sept. 13, 2013, Steven Tucker and his caving partner discovered the remains of what scientists would later determine to be a new member of the human family tree. Here's how it happened. Social Sharing Steve Tucker followed a crack just 18 centimetres wide The Associated Press · Posted: Sep 10, 2015 1:43 PM ET | Last Updated: September 11, 2015 Researcher Lee Berger’s daughter, Megan, acted as a safety caver, helping other researchers such as Rick Hunter navigate the narrow chutes leading to the Dinaledi Chamber of the Rising Star cave in South Africa. The chamber was discovered by caver Steve Tucker. ( Robert Clark/National Geographic ) comments Jagged rocks hooked into Steven Tucker's overalls as he squeezed through a crack deep in a subterranean cave. Upon emerging at the other end, he saw he was in a chamber with stalactites hanging from the ceiling. Then his headlamp shone onto a bone. Then more bones, and half of a skull. Bones of Homo naledi, new human relative, found in South African cave It was the night of Sept. 13, 2013, and Tucker and his caving partner had just discovered the remains of what scientists would later determine to be a new member of the human family tree. The announcement of the discovery was made by scientists on Thursday, with Tucker looking on. South Africa Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, left, shakes hands with Steven Tucker, right, after researcher Lee Berger introduces them. The night of Sept. 13, 2013, Tucker and his caving partner discovered the remains of what scientists would determine to be a new member of the human family tree. (Themba Hadebe/Associated Press) Tucker was only trying to get out of fellow caver Rick Hunter's way, inching to the side, on a different intended route when he stepped into the crack in the network of caves known as Rising Star. He'd heard of the crack before, but despite having been down this cave more than 20 times before, he had never noticed it, nor known of any other caver who had ventured down it. He shone his headlamp down the dark crevice, and couldn't see where it ended. He knew of at least one other caver who also stared down the crack, and decided it was too dangerous. He began to lower himself, feet-first, into the narrow vertical opening. "It's exciting to find something new," Tucker, now 27, told The Associated Press on Thursday, trying to explain why he took the risk. You could see half of a skull sticking out of the floor - Steve Tucker Tucker, just wiry enough to fit, followed the crack deeper into the earth for nearly 13 yards (12 meters). "It's 18 centimeters (7.1 inches) wide, with these jagged rocks, sticking into you from all sides. And suddenly at the bottom, it opens up into a large chamber with really stunning stalactites hanging from the ceiling," Tucker said, hunching his shoulders and jutting his elbows out as he re-enacted the descent. Fragments of bone 'everywhere' Canadian paleoanthropologist Marina Elliott, who was the first member of her team to enter the cache of fossils, shared the experience with Andrew Nichols on CBC News Now. "It's pitch dark except for your head lamp and it is very warm. It's an 18 degrees Centigrade constant temperature there, but it's actually 99 per cent humidity. So it's very, very damp and sort of smells like warm, moist earth," she said. "I entered into the chamber and got a glimpse of the walls and … literally everywhere that my head lamp fell, I could see fragments of bone." "For me that instant moment was what I imagined Howard Carter to have felt when he opened Tutankhamun's tomb. And it was really, really incredible," Elliott said. Unexplored part of Cradle of Humankind The 50,000-hectare (123,550-acre) area of hilly grasslands where the two were spelunking is recognized as the Cradle of Humankind, featuring a network of caves that has yielded nearly 40 pe rcent of known hominid fossils, according to the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg. But this particular chamber had apparently been unexplored until Tucker worked his way down the chute. Inside what is now known as the Dinaledi chamber, Tucker's headlamp illuminated pure white rock formations. Tucker and Hunter, who also braved the narrow chute, were excited to find new caving terrain. Then they saw a bone, then more bones scattered on the chamber floor. "You could see half of a skull sticking out of the floor," Tucker said. "Of course, at that time we had no idea what we had found. ... What interested us at first was the fact that these were quite large bones. How does something that has no lights, no protective equipment like we had get in here?" Previous Next Hide caption Toggle Fullscreen1 of 0 An almost complete mandible told the cavers that they had found something almost human. Their camera battery was dead, and so a week later they made their way through the cave again, and photographed their find. They sent the photographs to geologist Pedro Boshoff, who alerted paleontologist Lee Berger, who went on to become the lead paleontologist on the discovery of Homo naledi. It was only when the cavers saw Berger's excitement that they realized just how big their discovery was. At the press conference announcing the discovery of Homo naledi, a potential new member of the human family tree, Tucker was joined by other cavers, who volunteered on the excavation for nearly two years. Berger called them "underground astronauts." with files from CBC News CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Bones of Homo naledi, new human relative, found in South African cave Photos New human relative discovered in South Africa Rare tooth of human ancestor found in France Ancient human with close Neanderthal ancestor found in Romania Homo erectus engraved shell is about half-a-million years old Bones of pre-Neanderthal found in France External Links National Geographic feature on Homo naledi eLIFE on the discovery of Homo naledi Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca