http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/large-area-of-ice-collapses-in-antarctic-1.332125
Large area of ice collapses in Antarctic | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Large area of ice collapses in Antarctic Social Sharing Technology & Science Large area of ice collapses in Antarctic A large shelf of ice has collapsed in an area of the Antarctic where scientists say warming is happening faster than the global average Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Mar 20, 2002 4:19 PM ET | Last Updated: March 20, 2002 A large shelf of ice has collapsed in an area of the Antarctic where scientists say warming is happening faster than the global average. The British Antarctic Survey said the Antarctic Peninsula, which reaches up toward Chile and Argentina, has warmed 2.5 C since the late 1940s, much faster than the rest of the planet. The portion of the Larsen B shelf 200 metres thick with a surface area of 3,250 square kilometres crumbled into small icebergs, said the Survey. The shelf is now about 40 per cent as large as it was five years ago, scientists said. Ice shelves are thick plates that float on the ocean surrounding Antarctica and are fed by the continent's glaciers. Scientists at the National Snow and Ice Data Center at the University of Colorado first noticed the collapse on satellite images earlier this month. They said the shelf disintegrated over a 35-day period beginning on Jan. 31. "This breakup gave us the information we need to reassess the stability of ice shelves around the rest of the Antarctic continent," glaciologist Ted Scambos said in a statement. David Vaughan of the British Antarctic Survey said about 500 billion tonnes of ice broke off the Antarctic Peninsula when Larsen B shattered. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Antarctic Ice Shelves Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca