https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/birds-evolving-faster-in-americas-study-says-1.1193817
Birds evolving faster in Americas, study says | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Birds evolving faster in Americas, study says Social Sharing Technology & Science Birds evolving faster in Americas, study says The rate of evolution of birds appears to be accelerating, particularly in North and South America, says new research based on a genetic family tree of every bird species known to man. Social Sharing B.C. researchers among team that analyzed 9,993 types of avian species CBC News · Posted: Nov 01, 2012 12:14 PM ET | Last Updated: November 1, 2012 A new study shows that the evolution of bird species, such as geese, is accelerating, particularly in North America, parts of Asia and South America. (Jonathan Hayward/Canadian Press) The rate of evolution of birds appears to be accelerating, particularly in North and South America, says new research based on a genetic family tree of every bird species known to man. Using a genetic map of 9,993 bird species, a team of researchers — including scientists at B.C.'s Simon Fraser University — found that the rate of bird diversification is increasing, particularly in North America, parts of Asia and South America. "We find that birds have undergone a strong increase in diversification rate from about 50 million years ago to the near present," the scientists say in a study published in the journal Nature today. Based on previous studies, the researchers expected to reach the opposite conclusion and find that the rate at which new bird species proliferate would diminish over time, in part as a result of human impacts on natural habitats. But the scientists, including SFU biologist Arne Mooers, post-doctoral fellow Jeff Joy and colleagues at Yale University, University of Sheffield in the U.K., and the University of Tasmania in Australia, found that the rate at which new species variations are developing is picking up speed. "Perhaps birds are special," said Mooers in a statement. "Maybe they’re so good at getting around they can escape local competition from relatives and start anew elsewhere, producing bursts of new species at different times and in different parts of the globe." Changing climate may play a role, researchers say Although researchers estimate that a new bird species is created every 700 years, the rate of extinction brought on by human impact is 300 times higher. To create the family tree, researchers examined millions of years worth of fossil and DNA data. The origins of all known bird species were plotted on a map of the Earth. The species' evolution was also tracked on a historical timeline. They found that bird evolution was more rapid in the Western Hemisphere than in the Eastern Hemisphere. What's more, the highest diversification rates were found in "higher-latitude North America, parts of north Asia and southwest South America.... These regions have all been characterized by strong climactic fluctuations from the Pliocene [epoch] to the present," scientists wrote in the study. The researchers propose that the Earth's changing climate has had a role in these patterns. "We need to think a lot more about how Earth’s changing climate has led to current distributions," said Mooers in a statement. Rapidly diversifying species include types of waterfowl, such as ducks and geese, gulls and woodpeckers, the study said. Alternatively, the rate of diversification in Australia, Southeast Asia, Africa and Madagascar was lower, the researchers found. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Wonky winter brings Arctic birds south, sparks early migration Photos Canada's birds at risk Save a third of fish for birds, scientists urge Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca