https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/hottest-september-1.3283438
September 2015 was hottest on record, breaking 7th monthly record this year | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news September 2015 was hottest on record, breaking 7th monthly record this year Social Sharing Technology & Science September 2015 was hottest on record, breaking 7th monthly record this year This past September was the hottest ever worldwide — the seventh monthly record set this year. Social Sharing 2015 on track to beat 2014 as hottest year ever The Associated Press · Posted: Oct 22, 2015 8:47 AM ET | Last Updated: October 22, 2015 Luis Soto, 8, cools off in the splash pad at Catalina Park in Tucson, Ariz., in mid-August, when temperatures highs of 43 degrees or higher in the region. The U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration calculated a global temperature for September of 15.9 C (60.62 F), beating the record set in 2014. (Mamta Popat /Arizona Daily Star/Associated Press) comments This past September was the hottest ever worldwide — the seventh monthly record set this year. The U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration calculated a global temperature for September of 15.9 C (60.62 F), beating the record set in 2014. July 2015 was the hottest month on modern record Global heat records smashed in first half of 2015 Seven of the nine months this year have broken monthly global heat records, tying 1998 for the most monthly heat records broken. This year, only January and April did not surpass records going back to 1880. Climate scientists blame man-made global warming and El Nino. This is has been the hottest first nine months of any year. NOAA climate scientist Jessica Blunden said it would take a highly unlikely cold stretch the rest of the year for 2015 not to pass 2014 as the hottest on record. 2014 was hottest year in modern record Hottest year on global record was Canada's coolest in 18 years CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Global warming will hurt most economies, but boost Canada's, study says July 2015 was the hottest month on modern record Global heat records smashed in first half of 2015 Video VIDEO: Abnormally warm temperatures in Greenland cause for concern 2014 was hottest year in modern record Hottest year on global record was Canada's coolest in 18 years 'Hottest year' record likely for 2014 after warmest October September 2014 was the hottest on record External Links NOAA news release Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca