http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/story/2011/07/06/technology-dextre-space-robot.html
Canadian robot to test tools for satellite repair in space | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Canadian robot to test tools for satellite repair in space Social Sharing Technology & Science Canadian robot to test tools for satellite repair in space Dextre, the International Space Station's Canadian robot handyman, is set to demonstrate that satellites can be refuelled and repaired in space using new tools carried by the shuttle Atlantis, set to launch Friday. Social Sharing Growing need for internet bandwidth increasing damage to satellites in space CBC News · Posted: Jul 06, 2011 5:03 PM ET | Last Updated: July 7, 2011 Dextre, which became fully operational in 2010, was originally designed for logistics and maintenance on the International Space Station. This is the first time it will be used in a research and development project. (NASA) Dextre, the International Space Station's Canadian robot handyman, is set to demonstrate that satellites can be refuelled and repaired in space using new tools carried by the shuttle Atlantis, set to launch Friday. Repairs performed by robots could extend the lifespan of satellites used to provide internet and GPS access. Such repairs are becoming increasingly necessary the space around the Earth where satellites orbit gets increasingly crowded, putting them at higher risk of collisions. The new tools will allow two-armed Dextre to perform satellite refueling and repairs designed to be done by humans on Earth, not robots in space. "Definitely, one of the objectives of this particular demonstration is to see just how far we can push Dextre," said Mathieu Caron, mission operations manager for the Canadian Space Agency, at a NASA news conference Wednesday. "We're quite looking forward to the demonstration." Dextre, which became fully operational in 2010, was originally designed for logistics and maintenance on the International Space Station. Up until now, it has only performed tasks designed to be done by robots, such as unloading unmanned cargo spaceships. This is the first time it will be used in a research and development project. 30% chance of Friday launch As of Wednesday, NASA predicted there was an 80 per cent chance that poor weather would interfere with Atlantis's fuelling, and a 70 per cent chance that the shuttle would be unable to launch Friday as scheduled. Based on the weather forecast, there is a 60 per cent chance the shuttle won't be able to fly Saturday, and a 40 per cent chance it won't be able to launch Sunday either. NASA's Benjamin Reed demonstrates one of the new tools that Dextre will use as NASA colleague Frank Cepollina, left, and the Canadian Space Agency's Mathieu Caron, right, look on. (NASA TV) When it does take off, Atlantis will be carrying the Robotic Refuelling Mission module, which is designed to demonstrate that satellites can be refuelled and repaired in space. It includes parts identical to those that would be found on a real satellite and the tools to manipulate them, which will be operated by Dextre. The robot will be controlled remotely by human operators on Earth, guided by cameras attached to the new tools. NASA hopes that by showing the technology already exists, it will encourage private companies to develop their own space robots, space gas stations and space "tow trucks" to service satellites orbiting the Earth, which already number around 400. "Without such a thing, the satellites that are not getting this support … would end in failure or would end their lives abruptly or short of full expectation of utilization," said Frank Cepollina, project manager for NASA's satellite servicing capabilities office. He noted that our reliance on communications satellites is increasing because of the growing demand to transmit larger and larger amounts of data via the internet or mobile devices. "And the more satellites you put up there — which you're going to have to do the cover bandwidth — the more probability there is that you're going to need a tow truck," he added. Satellites are typically not designed to be serviced in space. They are built with valves, caps, hoses, and connections that aren't easily manipulated by robots. Dextre's new tools, which were demonstrated at the news conference Wednesday, are designed to deal with such parts. Caron said the robot has been built with a lot of flexibility that allows it to do things for which it was not originally designed. For example, Dextre was supposed to be controlled only by astronauts on the space station, but has been upgraded to allow it to be controlled from Earth. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories FAQ: Space shuttle Atlantis PHOTO GALLERY: Atlantis's final flight Last shuttle launch may be delayed by weather External Links NASA's Robotic Refuelling Mission NASA's Robotic Refuelling Mission NASA's Robotic Refuelling Mission Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca