http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/ancient-arctic-camel-offers-climate-change-clues-1.1399352
Ancient Arctic camel offers climate change clues | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Ancient Arctic camel offers climate change clues Social Sharing Technology & Science Ancient Arctic camel offers climate change clues Camels may be called the ships of the desert, but ancient, mummified bones dug from the tundra are confirming that the animals now synonymous with the arid sands of Arabia actually developed in what is now Canada's High Arctic. Social Sharing Mummified bones dug from the tundra confirm animals developed in Canada's High Arctic The Canadian Press · Posted: Mar 05, 2013 12:25 PM ET | Last Updated: March 5, 2013 Illustration of the High Arctic camel on Ellesmere Island, Nunavut during the Pliocene warm period around 3 million years ago. (Julius Csotonyi/Canadian Museum of Nature) Camels may be called the ships of the desert, but ancient, mummified bones dug from the tundra are confirming that the animals now synonymous with the arid sands of Arabia actually developed in what is now Canada's High Arctic. And those remains from Ellesmere Island — the most northerly spot to ever yield camel bones — are also raising important questions about the future of the warming Arctic. COMING UP Natalia Rybczynski talks to Quirks & Quarks March 9 at noon on CBC Radio One. About three-and-a-half-million years ago, Strathcona Fiord on the island's west-central coast would have looked a lot more like a northern forest than an Arctic landscape, said paleobotanist Natalia Rybczynski of the Canadian Museum of Nature in Ottawa. "Larch-dominated, lots of wetlands, peat," said Rybczynski, lead author of a study published Tuesday in Nature Communications. Nearby fossil sites have yielded evidence of ancient bears, horses, deer, badgers and frogs. The average yearly temperature would have been about 0 C. "If you were standing in it and watching the camel, it would have the feel of a boreal-type forest." Missing moose The only thing missing, really, were moose. The camel "is taking that moose role, the really huge herbivore," Rybczynski said. The Arctic camel was fully 30 per cent larger than modern camels, she said. Her best guess is it was one-humped. Although native camels are now only found in Africa and Asia, scientists have long believed the species actually developed in North America and later died out. Camel remains have been previously found in the Yukon. What makes Rybczynski's find special is not only how far north it was found, but its state of preservation. The 30 fragments found amidst the sand and pebbles of the tundra were mummified, not fossilized. So despite their age, the pieces preserved tiny fragments of collagen within them, a common type of protein found in bones. Analyzing that protein not only proved the fragments were from camels, but from a type of camel that is much more closely related to the modern version than the Yukon camel. Out of the dozens of camel species that once roamed North America, the type Rybczynski found was one of the most likely to have crossed the Bering land bridge and colonized the deserts. "This is the one that's tied to the ancestry of modern camels." Camels shed light on Arctic climate Her research is also important for what it suggests about the Arctic climate. Back when this camel was browsing leaves and shoots, the entire global climate averaged about two or three degrees warmer than it is now. That's about as much a difference as scientists say the Earth can undergo today without catastrophic changes. "This is a super-important time analogue," Rybczynski said. "This is a period of time that's being referred to as a historical analogue for future warming." Climate models suggest that if the entire globe averages a two-degree increase, the Arctic will experience a much greater increase of seven to 10 degrees. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Next stop on the camel caravan: Canada's High Arctic Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca