http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/modern-humans-may-have-copied-neanderthal-technology-1.1396420
Modern humans may have copied Neanderthal technology | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Modern humans may have copied Neanderthal technology Social Sharing Technology & Science Modern humans may have copied Neanderthal technology Neanderthals made the oldest known version of a specialized tool still used by leather craftspeople today, researchers say, suggesting that modern humans may have learned from Neanderthals how to make it. Social Sharing Leather-working tool dates back before arrival of modern humans CBC News · Posted: Aug 12, 2013 3:45 PM ET | Last Updated: August 12, 2013 Neanderthals made the oldest known version of a specialized tool still used by leather craftspeople today, researchers say, suggesting that modern humans may have learned from Neanderthals how to make it. Yolaine Maigrot of France's CNRS analyzed the way in which the bone tools were worn away from use on a softer material, such as animal hide, using the kind of repetitive motion that would be expected for the tool. (Abri Peyrony & Pech-de-l'Azé I Projects) Lissoirs, or smoothers, are used to make leather softer, shiny and water-resistant. Fragments of four lissoirs made from deer ribs were found at two Neanderthal sites in southwest France, reports a paper to be published this week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences by an international team that includes University of British Columbia anthropologist Michael Richards. Radiocarbon dating of bones near the oldest of the tools showed they were about 50,000 years old. That is well before the time of the most solid evidence of modern humans in Western Europe and older than any other similarly sophisticated bone tools. "If Neanderthals developed this type of bone tool on their own, it is possible that modern humans then acquired this technology from Neanderthals," said Marie Soressi, an archeologist at Leiden University in the Netherlands who was the lead author of the report, in a statement. "This is the first possible evidence for transmission [of culture] from Neanderthals to our direct ancestors.… It might be one or perhaps even the only heritage from Neanderthal times that our society is still using today." Modern humans may have arrived earlier than thought The researchers said they couldn't rule out the possibility that modern humans actually arrived in Europe earlier than currently known, and that the lissoirs are therefore a result of their influence. The face of a Neanderthal man is displayed at the Neanderthal Museum in the northern Croatian town of Krapina. Neanderthals died out in Europe around 40,000 years ago, shortly after the arrival of modern humans. (Nikola Solic/Reuters) Soressi noted, however, that available evidence suggests that when modern humans first arrived in Europe, around 40,000 years ago, they had only pointed tools, although they started to make lissoirs shortly after that. Neanderthals died out in Europe around 40,000 years ago, shortly after the arrival of modern humans. Just before they disappeared, Neanderthals started showing behaviours similar to those of modern humans, such as the use of specialized stone tools, small blades and body ornaments, leading to debates about whether those behaviours were the result of contact with modern humans, the researchers reported. The latest finding adds new fuel to the debate. Sabine Gaudzinski-Windheuser, a professor at Mainz University who also wasn't involved with the study, told The Associated Press that the evidence was a bit thin to draw any conclusions about the interaction between the two groups. "Based on this find, to make statements about the transition or the interaction between Neanderthals and modern humans… you really have to stretch the evidence very far to get to this conclusion," she said. The first of the four tools, called lissoirs, was found at the Neanderthal cave site of Pech-de-l’Azé in southwestern France. It was dated to approximately 50,000 years old. (Courtesy of the Pech-de-l’Azé I Project) The lissoirs were excavated by Soressi and William Rendu of France's Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS), alongside more typical Neanderthal stone tools and the bones of horses, deer, bison and other animals the Neanderthals would have hunted. Yolaine Maigrot of France's CNRS analyzed the way in which the bone tools were worn away from use on a softer material, such as animal hide, using the kind of repetitive motion that would be expected for a lissoir. Bone tools older than the lissoirs have been found at Neanderthal sites before, but none have been as sophisticated or specialized to take advantage of the properties of bone compared to stone, the researchers said. A reconstruction shows how lissoirs, made of deer ribs, could be used to make animal hides more supple, shiny and water-resistant. The bottom half shows how the downward pressure ultimately results in a break that produces small fragments like those seen in three of the reported bones. (Courtesy of Abri Peyrony and Pech-de-l’Azé I Projects) With files from the Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Neanderthals, humans may have missed each other Neanderthal genome may hold clues to human survival External Links Summary of paper in PNAS Summary of paper in PNAS Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca