http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/global-co2-emissions-break-record-ahead-of-un-climate-summit-1.2773884
Global CO2 emissions break record ahead of UN Climate Summit | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Global CO2 emissions break record ahead of UN Climate Summit Social Sharing Technology & Science Global CO2 emissions break record ahead of UN Climate Summit More carbon pollution was spewed into the air globally last year than ever before, chiefly due to China, the U.S., and India, scientists said ahead of this week's UN Climate Summit. Social Sharing Top carbon emitters China, U.S. and India all show jumps in emissions, Canada 10th in world The Associated Press · Posted: Sep 22, 2014 9:58 AM ET | Last Updated: September 22, 2014 Smoke billows from a chimney of a heating plant as the sun sets in Beijing in a 2012 photo. Chinese emissions grew by 4.2 per cent last year, research ahead of the opening of Climate Week on Monday indicate. (Alexander F. Yuan/Associated Press) comments More carbon pollution was spewed into the air globally last year than ever before, chiefly due to China, the U.S. and India, scientists announced as world leaders gathered today in New York City ahead of tomorrow's opening of the UN Climate Summit. Importing air pollution from China Rockefellers to sell oil assets in fight against global warming PHOTOS | Climate marches around the world More than 100 world leaders will attend the summit to discuss how to reverse the emissions trend. According to new scientific reports, the world pumped an estimated 36.1 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide into the air last year by burning coal, oil and gas. That is 706 million tonnes, or 2.3 per cent more, than the previous year. "It's in the wrong direction," said Glen Peters, a Norwegian scientist who was part of the Global Carbon Project international team that tracks and calculates global emissions every year. Their results were published Sunday in three articles in the peer-reviewed journals Nature Geoscience and Nature Climate Change. Summary of paper in Nature Geoscience Summary of paper in Nature Climate Change The team projects that emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2), the main heat-trapping gas from human activity, are increasing by 2.5 per cent this year. The scientists forecast that emissions will continue to increase, adding that the world in about 30 years will warm by about 1.1 C from now. In 2009, world leaders called that level dangerous and pledged not to reach it. "Time is running short," said Pierre Friedlingstein of the University of Exeter in England, one of the studies' lead authors. "The more we do nothing, the more likely we are to be hitting this wall in 2040-something." Chris Field, a Carnegie Institution ecologist who heads a UN panel on global warming, called the studies "a stark and sobering picture of the steps we need to take to address the challenge of climate change." No countries came close to China, India, U.S. The world's three biggest carbon-polluting nations — China, the U.S. and India — all saw their emissions jump. No other country came close in additional emissions: When the extra leap day in 2012 is accounted for: Chinese emissions grew by 4.2 per cent to 10 billion tonnes. U.S. emissions grew by 2.9 per cent to 5.2 billion tonnes. Indian emissions grew by 5.1 per cent to 2.4 billion tonnes. China, the No. 1 carbon polluter, also had more than half the world's increases over 2012. China's increases are slowing because its economy isn't growing as fast as it had been, Peters said. The U.S. had reduced its carbon emissions in four of the five previous years. Peters said it rose last year because of a recovering economy and more coal power. Canada's emissions increased one per cent last year to 503 million tonnes, making it the 10th biggest carbon emitter in the world. Only two dozen of the about 200 countries cut their carbon emissions last year, led by mostly European countries. Spain had the biggest decrease. The world emissions averaged to 2.9 million kilograms of carbon dioxide put in the air every second. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Rockefellers to sell oil assets as part of $50B global warming fight Importing air pollution from China UN Climate Summit: Thousands march worldwide ahead of meeting Global heat record set in August 2014 External Links UN Climate Change Summit 2014 Global Carbon Project Summary of the paper in Nature Climate Change Summary of the paper in Nature Geoscience Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca