https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/icebergs-freed-by-climate-change-decimate-antarctic-sea-life-1.2678222
Icebergs freed by climate change decimate Antarctic sea life | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Icebergs freed by climate change decimate Antarctic sea life Social Sharing Technology & Science Icebergs freed by climate change decimate Antarctic sea life Roving icebergs unleashed by climate change have decimated the variety of life on the sea floor near the West Antarctic Peninsula in just 16 years, a new study has found. Social Sharing More icebergs forming and floating freely due to climate change Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Jun 17, 2014 12:44 PM ET | Last Updated: June 17, 2014 A dramatic grounded iceberg is seen from Lagoon Island in Ryder Bay Antarctica. As a result of climate change, there are now more icebergs in the region and they float around more freely, as there is less sea ice to hold them in place. (British Antarctic Survey) comments Roving icebergs unleashed by climate change have decimated the variety of life on the sea floor near the West Antarctic Peninsula in just 16 years, according to a new study. Researchers with the British Antarctic Survey looked at a 500-square-metre patch of sea floor in 1997, and found the boulders were crusted with a colourful, diverse patchwork of creatures called "moss animals," a group of invertebrates that live like corals, but are not closely related to them. Like corals, they are filter-feeding animals that live in colonies, and can have hard or soft bodies. It's catastrophic, really. They kill 99 per cent of things they come in contact with. - David Barnes, British Antarctic Survey But when researchers returned in 2013, only a single species – a fast-growing moss animal called Fenestrulina rugula — was visible on most rocks, they reported in the journal Current Biology this week. Other species had become extremely rare. Summary of the paper in Current Biology "The structure of biodiversity has fundamentally changed," said David Barnes, lead author of the study. "Although the same species are still there, most of them are now so vanishingly rare, that they effectively play no part in the system." The fast-growing moss animal Fenestrulina rugula was the only species that was still common on the boulders on the sea floor in the study area in 2013. (David Bowden) The culprit? Icebergs. Huge Antarctic ice sheet collapsing As the glaciers retreat and the ice shelves collapse on the West Antarctic Peninsula, they break off into floating chunks of ice, some of them extremely massive. Fifty years ago, icebergs couldn't move around much because most years, the sea surface was frozen for much of the year. But recently, Barnes said, most years, the sea is frozen for less than 50 days a year. That leaves the icebergs free to drift and blow in the wind until they crash boulders on the sea floor, pounding and scraping away everything that lived on them. "It's catastrophic, really," Barnes said. "They kill 99 per cent of things they come in contact with." Massive Antarctic iceberg heads for open ocean Because most of an iceberg is underwater and some icebergs are massive, they can cause destruction as deep as 600 metres below the surface, Barnes added. That means the area of the sea floor that icebergs are stripping of its biodiversity could be vast. Barnes is concerned because high biodiversity helps protect ecosystems against disturbances such as invasive species. The low biodiversity left behind by the icebergs mean "the system could now be very fragile and fall over," he said. When asked if he thought something similar could happen in the Arctic, Barnes said, "Absolutely." He suggested that similar, sudden losses of biodiversity could be happening along other coastlines around the world as a result of other effects of climate change. Barnes's team is now collaborating with other researchers to see whether icebergs are destroying biodiversity on the sea floor in other parts of the Antarctic. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Video Antarctic iceberg break-off captured in NASA images Huge Antarctic ice sheet collapsing Massive Antarctic iceberg heads for open ocean Sea anemones found living beneath Antarctic ice shelf External Links Summary of paper in Current Biology British Antarctic Survey news release Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca