http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/canada-s-climate-inaction-leaves-it-increasingly-isolated-ahead-of-cop-20-1.2853774
Canada's climate inaction leaves it 'increasingly isolated' ahead of COP 20 | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Canada's climate inaction leaves it 'increasingly isolated' ahead of COP 20 Social Sharing Technology & Science Canada's climate inaction leaves it 'increasingly isolated' ahead of COP 20 Canada is looking 'increasingly isolated' as other former climate policy laggards like the U.S. and China take action, policy experts say as the annual United Nations Climate Change Conference, COP20, opens today in Lima, Peru. Social Sharing Provinces step up to fill policy vacuum as Canada faces mounting international pressure Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Dec 01, 2014 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: December 3, 2014 Interview with Gordon McBean, co-winner of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with many other scientists on their work with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 4:19 comments Canada is looking "increasingly isolated" as former climate policy laggards such as the U.S. and China take action to tackle climate change, policy experts say. Earlier this month, the U.S. and China announced an agreement to significantly cut and cap their greenhouse gas emissions. Why your taxes pay to make climate change worse: Don Pittis Not only does that give a big boost to the global momentum to tackle climate change, but it cranks up the international pressure on Canada ahead of the annual United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 20), which opens today in Lima, Peru. "They make [Prime Minister Stephen] Harper look increasingly isolated," said Simon Dalby, CIGI chair in the political economy of climate change at the Balsillie School of International Affairs in Waterloo, Ont. Environment Minister Leona Aglukkaq is leading a Canadian delegation to the COP 20 U.N. climate change conference in Lima, which runs Dec. 1-12. (Sean Kilpatrick/Canadian Press) At COP 20, a Canadian delegation led by Environment Minister Leona Aglukkaq is joining policymakers from 195 countries to negotiate a legally binding international climate change agreement to replace the Kyoto Protocol. The agreement is due to be signed at the COP 21 meeting in Paris next year. A poll released this week shows a majority of Canadians are worried about the impact of climate change on future generations, and more than half support a carbon tax. Climate change survey reveals Canadians' fears for future generations Harper and successive environment ministers have repeatedly said Canada would move on climate change when there was a commitment from "all major emitters" to curb greenhouse gas emissions. Canada has also indicated that it would follow the lead of the U.S. Dalby says in light of the new China-U.S. agreement, Canada's lack of leadership and continued focus on developing the oilsands at the expense of other kinds of energy looks foolish. "We're getting left behind badly in energy development," he said. Canada missing out on green energy revolution, report says Canada will also have to play catch-up to the U.S. in finding ways to reduce its emissions to a comparable degree, as required to keep the two economies aligned and compatible, Dalby added. "Right now it does not look like a sensible political strategy to hand over national decision-making to another state, although that seems like something Harper seems to have been quite happy to do for the last few years." Nicholas Rivers, Canada Research Chair in Climate and Energy Policy, said that the new agreement puts us "further out of line" with the U.S. "There's likely policy makers feeling some heat from this," he added. 'We're an outlier' Greenhouse gas emissions, which are linked to global warming, are projected to keep rising in Canada, even as U.S. and Europe set targets and projections for declines. "We're an outlier," Rivers said. Alberta's oil and gas industry has called for a carbon tax. (Jeff McIntosh/Canadian Press) But he added that other countries are starting to exert pressure on Canada, through trade mechanisms such as the recent European Union plan to label oilsands crude as "dirty" – a plan it eventually dropped. While the Canadian government has largely ignored that kind of noise so far, the provinces and industry are paying closer attention. Urgent IPCC climate change warning demands action: Bob McDonald For example, Alberta's oil and gas industry has been calling for a carbon tax. Rivers said the industry recognizes that given global concerns about climate change, a good domestic climate policy is necessary to provide the "social licence" to be able to sell Alberta's oil outside the country or even outside the province. Meanwhile, the federal government's promised regulations for the oil and gas sector are three years behind schedule, says Scott Vaughan, president and CEO of the International Institute for Sustainable Development, a public policy think tank. He is also the former federal environment commissioner. Provinces experiment The lack of federal action has prompted some provinces to implement their own policies, Vaughan says, adding, "You can only wait for so long." Those policies include: B.C.'s carbon tax, introduced in 2008, which has been praised for reducing emissions without hurting the economy. Alberta's version of carbon pricing, called the specified gas emitters regulation, which went into effect in 2007, and has proposed making them stricter. Quebec's cap and trade system, which went into effect in 2013. Ontario's phasing out of coal-fired power plants, and its discussions with Quebec and California about carbon pricing and trading. "The boldest areas of policy experimentation are taking place in the provinces," Vaughan said. Rivers says that while there is momentum building at the provincial level, regional initiatives are no substitute for federal policy action. "We've got very, very incomplete coverage," he said. "What you'd like to see both for efficiency reasons and fairness and competitiveness reasons is a unified kind of framework across different provinces in Canada." There is some indication that the federal government may be starting to budge. Earlier in November, the federal government made a surprise $300-million pledge to the Green Climate Fund to help developing nations address climate change. Dalby said that "suggests that we don't want to be completely left behind on this stuff." Nevertheless, neither he nor Vaughan have high hopes for a big policy turnaround for Canada at COP 20. "I wouldn't expect very much," Dalby says. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Climate change survey reveals Canadians' fears for future generations Canada pledges $300 million to Green Climate Fund Canada under pressure after U.S., China agree to curb greenhouse gases U.S., China agree to cut greenhouse gases in bid to spur others to join UN climate change report offers stark warnings, hope EU agrees to cut greenhouse gases by 40% by 2030 How big business can help fight climate change: Bob McDonald External Links UNFCCC COP 20 climate change meeting in Lima Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca