https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/nunavut-dinosaur-fossil-is-most-northern-ever-found-1.2598606
Nunavut dinosaur fossil is most northern ever found | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Nunavut dinosaur fossil is most northern ever found Social Sharing Technology & Science Nunavut dinosaur fossil is most northern ever found A fossil from a duck-billed dinosaur in the Canadian High Arctic is the most northern ever discovered. Social Sharing Hadrosaur lived in Arctic year round, despite extreme seasons CBC News · Posted: Apr 04, 2014 2:39 PM ET | Last Updated: April 4, 2014 Hadrosaurs were plant-eating, duck-billed dinosaurs that lived during the Cretaceous period. (Heinrich Harder) comments A dinosaur fossil from the Canadian High Arctic is the most northern ever discovered. The fossil vertebra, part of the backbone of a duck-billed dinosaur called a hadrosaur, was discovered on Axel Heiberg Island in Nunavut at a latitude of about 75 degrees north – 500 kilometres further north than any permanent human settlement, said paleontologist Matthew Vavrek, lead author of a new paper describing the fossil. The paper was published in the journal Arctic. Hadrosaurs are a group of plant-eating dinosaurs, including Edmontosaurus, with duck-like bills and sometimes crests on their head. The size of the Arctic bone suggests that it was from a hadrosaur about eight-metres long. "This find up in the High Arctic is kind of unique because we found it on what at the time was kind of a relatively isolated part of North America. These animals would have been living in this area year round," said Vavrek in an interview that airs Saturday on CBC's Quirks & Quarks. Coming up: Matthew Vavrek talks to Quirks & Quarks April 5 at noon on CBC Radio One During the late Cretaceous period about 100 to 66 million years ago, when the Arctic hadrosaur lived, he added, its home was part of an island separated from the rest of North America by two seas, running from the Arctic Ocean to the Gulf of Mexico, and one cutting through northern Saskatchwan and Manitoba. That means it couldn't have migrated south during the winter. Vavrek, curator and head paleontologist at the Philip J. Currie Dinosaur Museum in Grand Prairie, Alta., said the discovery helps show the true range of where dinosaurs once lived. During the Late Cretaceous, North America was rotated such that Axel Heiberg Island was a little further south than it is now but still above the Arctic Circle. Temperatures averaged 15 degrees warmer and were far less extreme than they are in the region today. However, the Arctic still featured 24 hours of sunlight at the height of summer and 24 hours of darkness at the winter solstice. Because of that, there wouldn't have been a lot of plants to eat in the winter. New dinosaur, cousin of T. Rex, discovered in Arctic Vavrek suggests that the Arctic hadrosaur survived by eating some of the things found in the stomachs and fossilized feces of hadrosaurs that lived further south, such as twigs and branches, and decaying wood that contained nutritious fungi. "These dinosaurs definitely could have survived up in that area year round, living on this low-grade plant matter." Vavrek said paleontologists have barely looked for dinosaur fossils in the Canadian High Arctic because it's so expensive and logistically difficult to get there, and because the permafrost tends to break up fossil skeletons as it churns through its freeze-thaw cycles. But he thinks there may still remain many dinosaurs left to be found there. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Coming up: Matthew Vavrek talks to Quirks & Quarks April 5 at noon on CBC Radio One New dinosaur, cousin of T. Rex, discovered in Arctic Alberta dinosaur's head adorned with fleshy comb B.C. duck-billed dinosaur find airlifted to new home Northern Alberta hadrosaur called a new species External Links Summary of the paper Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca