https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/that-s-no-lobster-scientists-discover-t-rex-of-cambrian-period-1.855653
That's no lobster: scientists discover 'T. Rex' of Cambrian period | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news That's no lobster: scientists discover 'T. Rex' of Cambrian period Social Sharing Technology & Science That's no lobster: scientists discover 'T. Rex' of Cambrian period A team of scientists from Canada, Britain and Sweden has pieced together fossils of what they believe was a giant predator that roamed the seas 500 million years ago — a century after the fossils were first discovered. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Mar 19, 2009 3:30 PM ET | Last Updated: March 20, 2009 A team of scientists from Canada, Britain and Sweden has pieced together fossils of what they believe was a giant predator that roamed the seas 500 million years ago — a century after the fossils were first discovered. In a time when most creatures were no bigger than a fingernail, the 20-cm-long Hurdia victoria was a giant, earning its nickname as the Tyrannosaurus rex of the Cambrian era, researchers report in the Friday issue of journal Science. The fossils, found in British Columbia's Burgess Shale, were originally thought to belong to several different species, with some parts attributed to jellyfish, sea cucumbers and arthropods, a groups that includes crustaceans, spiders and insects. American paleontologist Charles Walcott made the initial discovery in 1909 and described Hurdia victoria as a crustacean-like animal. But the truth is much more complicated, said Allison Daley, the study's co-author and a Burlington, Ont.,-native working on her PhD at Sweden's Uppsala University. "Back when he found them, he thought they were all separate animals and gave them separate names," said Daley. "It was only when my co-author, Desmond Collins, did collecting in the '80s and '90s that he discovered that all these different parts ... were actually different parts of just one animal, the hurdia animal." Once Collins and Jean-Bernard Caron — both of the Royal Ontario Museum and the other Canadian co-authors of the study — started assembling these pieces, it became clear that they were looking at a creature unlike anything they had ever seen. It has a pair of tiny claws on its head that likely were used to shovel food into its large and toothy mouth, similar to another group of predators from that time, of the genus A nomalocaris. But its most distinct feature is the shell, or carapace, jutting from the front of its head. While crustaceans often have shells to protect the soft parts of the body, the H urdia shell is empty. "It's very odd," Caron told CBC News. "We don't understand the connection of this part to the rest of the creature very well." Caron said the carapace likely slowed the creature down, leading it to probably spend most of its time feeding closer to the sea floor. Also contributing to the study were Graham Budd of Uppsala University and Gregory Edgecombe of the Natural History Museum in Britain. The Burgess Shale, located high in the Rocky Mountains, has provided paleontologists with a treasure trove of fossils from about 505 million years ago. It was recognized as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1981. With files from the Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Burgess Shale Burgess Shale Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca