https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/honeybees-dropping-like-flies-from-mystery-illness-1.651445
Honeybees dropping like flies from mystery illness | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Honeybees dropping like flies from mystery illness Social Sharing Technology & Science Honeybees dropping like flies from mystery illness An illness killing tens of thousands of honeybee colonies across the United States has industry experts baffled and Canadian beekeepers concerned about the health of their hives. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Feb 12, 2007 10:55 AM ET | Last Updated: February 12, 2007 An illness killing tens of thousands of honeybee colonies across the United States has industry experts baffled and Canadian beekeepers concerned about the health of their hives. Researchers in the United States are searching for the cause of the ailment, called colony collapse disorder. Beekeepers from at least 22 states have reported unusual colony deaths. Some commercial beekeepers have reported losing more than 50 per cent of their colonies. "We have seen a lot of things happen in 40 years, but this is the epitome of it all," Dave Hackenberg, of Lewisburg-based Hackenberg Apiaries, said by phone from Fort Meade, Fla., where he was working with his bees. While the problem has been discussed in Canada, most apiaries north of the border have closed their hives for the winter. Until the beekeepers check on the hives in late March, they won't know whether the colonies have suffered similar losses, said Doug McRory, provincial apiarist with the Ontario Beekeepers Association. "It's been a poor fall but we haven't seen the same collapse here," McRory told CBC News Online. "But because it's winter we don't have a good handle on it. We'll have to wait until after winter to see how many are still alive." A honey bee colony can have roughly 20,000 bees in the winter and up to 60,000 in the summer. The bee population throughout North America has already faced a decline in recent years because of two parasitic bugs — the varroa mite and the honey bee tracheal mite — that have caused viruses in the bee population. Particularly hard hit by Colony Collapse Disorder are migratory operations where beekeepers take their colonies to warmer climates for the winter to help pollinate local agriculture. McRory said moving colonies already puts stress on the bees, with beekeepers traditionally losing up to 20 per cent of their hives in the move. Working towards a solution Scientists at Penn State, the University of Montana and the U.S. Department of Agriculture are among the groups working to solve the mystery of the shrinking colonies. Analysis of the dissected bees turned up weakened immune systems and an alarmingly high number of foreign fungi, bacteria and other organisms, according to Diana Cox-Foster, a Penn State entomology professor investigating the problem. What separates this disorder from other known colony ailments is that no remains are found around the colonies. Instead, scientists assume the bees have flown away from the hive before dying. Another oddity is that no stronger bee colony swoops in and overruns the weakened hive. "They seem to just abscond from the hive," said McRory. "That's what is really confusing." With files from the Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Lifting the curse of the Varroa Honeybee hives stung by parasites Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca