https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/climate-change-impacts-heat-up-un-talks-in-lima-1.2856502
Climate change impacts heat up UN talks in Lima | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Climate change impacts heat up UN talks in Lima Social Sharing Technology & Science Climate change impacts heat up UN talks in Lima With this year on track to become the warmest on record, more than 190 nations began talks Monday on new limits for the greenhouse gases that are causing billions of dollars in damage and making life harder to sustain around the world. Social Sharing Climate pact expected to be adopted in Paris next year The Associated Press · Posted: Dec 01, 2014 3:33 PM ET | Last Updated: December 1, 2014 People walk near the Hualcan glacier in Ancash region, Peru. The country is home to 70 per cent of the world's tropical glaciers, which are a source of fresh water for millions. (Mariana Bazo/Reuters) With this year on track to become the warmest on record, more than 190 nations began talks Monday on new limits for the greenhouse gases that are causing billions of dollars in damage and making life harder to sustain around the world. New targets for limiting gas emissions blamed on fossil fuels were announced ahead of this conference by the U.S., the European Union and China, the first Asian nation to make such a pledge. This has injected optimism into negotiations that are supposed to climax in Paris next year with the adoption of a long-awaited climate pact. World leaves Canada behind on climate change policy Climate change survey reveals Canadians' fears for future generations But India, Russia, Japan and Australia have yet to commit to new limits; and scientists say much sharper emissions cuts are needed in coming decades to keep global warming within two degrees C of pre-industrial times, the overall goal of the United Nations talks. Global temperatures have already risen about 0.8 degrees C, and more heat-trapping gases are emitted every year. Human influence on the climate system is clear. - Rajendra Pachauri, leads the UN's panel of climate-change experts Every degree of warming can cause long-lasting impacts, from melting ice caps and rising sea levels to the loss of species. "Human influence on the climate system is clear," Rajendra Pachauri, who leads the UN's panel of climate-change experts, told delegates at the opening session in Lima. To have a decent chance of reversing the warming trend before the planet hits the two-degree mark, the world needs to slash emissions by 40 per cent to 70 per cent by 2050 and to near-zero by the end of the century, according to the panel's assessments. Focus on draft agreement ahead of Paris talks Scientists are practically united in warning that there's no way to meet this goal by continuing business as usual. It would require a sustained, permanent, worldwide shift from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources to power homes, cars and industries. And even then, the transition might not happen fast enough without a large-scale deployment of new technologies to remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. Delegates from more than 190 countries will meet in Lima for the next two weeks to work on drafts for a global climate deal that is supposed to be adopted next year in Paris. (Martin Mejia/The Associated Press) "We call on the world to ensure the opportunity does not slip away," said Nauru's Marlene Moses, representing a group of Pacific island nations threatened by rising seas. The biggest challenge for the UN-sponsored talks is dividing responsibilities between rich Western countries and emerging economies such as China and India. The poorest and most vulnerable nations also need help to develop their economies without aggravating global warming, and to adapt to climate changes that are already causing more violent weather, prolonged droughts and intense flooding. Among them is host country Peru, whose glaciers are melting ever-faster, threatening water supplies on the coastal desert where 70 per cent of its citizens live and threatening the nation's hydropower and food security. The negotiators in Lima are focusing on a draft agreement that can be refined before the Paris meeting a year from now. A key issue is what data each government should provide so that formal emissions targets can be compared. Developing countries also want rich nations to make good on promises of financing to reduce emissions and mitigate climate change impacts, which range from the spread of diseases to coastal flooding to major disruptions to agriculture. There's no common agreement on how that money should be used; for example, The Associated Press found that Japan has spent $1 billion of its climate financing on new power plants in Indonesia that burn coal — the top source of man-made emissions. Japan says it improves the environment because the new plans burn cleaner, but critics said coal has no place in climate financing. The UN's weather agency is expected to present temperature data showing 2014 is shaping up to become the hottest year on record. Peru's tropical glaciers hit hard Peru is among the hardest-hit countries. The Andean nation has 70 per cent of the world's tropical glaciers, which have lost more than a fifth of their mass in just three decades, putting 300,000 highlanders under severe stress as pastures and croplands dry up, the planting cycle becomes more erratic and cold snaps more severe. Lima is the world's second-largest desert capital after Cairo, Egypt, and its 10 million inhabitants depend on glacial runoff for hydropower and to irrigate crops. Plants and animals are disappearing from Peru's cloud forests, its fisheries are declining and annual floods are more severe. Yearly economic damage from global warming in Latin America and the Caribbean will reach $100 billion a year by mid-century, according to research done for the Inter-American Development bank. Collectively, the region causes less than 10 per cent of global emissions, and yet its people are already bearing an oversized burden. "The people with the least intensive climate lifestyles are suffering the most," said geographer Jeffrey Bury of The University of California at Santa Cruz, who studies the social and economic impacts of glacier loss. "I think we can use the Andes high mountain environment," he said, "to understand what the future holds for the rest of us." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Canada's climate inaction leaves it 'increasingly isolated' ahead of COP 20 Climate change survey reveals Canadians' fears for future generations How big business can help fight climate change: Bob McDonald Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca