http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/climate-talks-un-2016-1.3840281
UN members avoid Trump talk as they work to turn Paris Agreement into action | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news UN members avoid Trump talk as they work to turn Paris Agreement into action Social Sharing Technology & Science UN members avoid Trump talk as they work to turn Paris Agreement into action Almost 200 nations began work on Monday to turn promises for fighting climate change into action at a U.N. conference that played down threats to a 2015 global agreement if Republican Donald Trump wins the U.S. presidency. Social Sharing Republican candidate has vowed to pull the U.S. out of the historic climate deal Thomson Reuters · Posted: Nov 07, 2016 2:56 PM ET | Last Updated: November 8, 2016 UN climate chief Patricia Espinosa, right, talks with Hoesung Lee, chairman of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, during the opening session of the Climate Conference in Marrakech, Morocco, Monday Nov. 7, 2016. (Mosa'ab Elshamy/Associated Press) Almost 200 nations began work on Monday to turn promises for fighting climate change into action at a U.N. conference that played down threats to a 2015 global agreement if Republican Donald Trump wins the U.S. presidency. At the start of two-week talks in Morocco, many delegates wore badges with a smiling picture of the Earth to celebrate the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on Nov. 4, which seeks to phase out greenhouse gas emissions this century. The U.S. election was not mentioned in speeches at the opening ceremonies. Trump doubts that climate change is caused by human-made greenhouse gases, mainly from burning coal and oil, and wants to abandon the pact. His Democratic rival Hillary Clinton, by contrast, is a strong supporter of the Paris accord. Growing fears Trump would scrap Paris climate deal Paris Agreement comes into effect in a 'race against time' Still, the upcoming election seemed to be on everyone's mind at the start of the two-week conference in Marrakech, where even security guards at the sprawling conference centre were overheard discussing the potential implications for the world and efforts to fight climate change in particular. Moroccan Foreign Minister and COP22 President Salaheddine Mezouar, left, and French Minister for Environment Segolene Royal launch the opening of climate talks in Marrakech. UN members are working to turn the Paris Agreement promises into reality. (Youssef Boudlal/Reuters) "Trump becoming president? I personally don't have problem with it. But what does the guy want to do?" said Adjo Bokon, a delegate from the West African nation of Togo. "Is he conscious of what is going on with climate change?" Gabriela Fischerova, a Slovak official representing the European Union, said the 28-nation bloc is "open to any result. We will continue our discussions with any administration that will be in place." 'It would be a shock' Asked about the U.S. election, French climate ambassador Laurence Tubiana told reporters: "I think we should not over-emphasize the importance of Donald Trump." "It would be a shock" if Trump were elected, she said. "But if it happened, on Wednesday morning you would see everyone say 'We stick to the Paris Agreement'," she said. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has vowed to pull the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement if elected, but UN members say it wouldn't be so easy. (Chris O'Meara/Associated Press) On Monday, delegates called for action to implement the Paris Agreement, which has been ratified by countries as diverse as China, Saudi Arabia and Pacific island states, as part of efforts to limit heat waves, droughts, floods and rising seas. Moroccan Foreign Minister Salaheddine Mezouar said there had been "unrivalled progress" on climate change this year. "Now we must build on this dynamic," he told delegates. 4 years to pull out of deal Average global temperatures are set to hit new highs in 2016, surpassing a 2015 record. The talks will try to find ways to step up curbs on greenhouse gases, help African nations cope with global warming and raise climate finance for developing nations to a goal of $100 billion a year by 2020. All countries have promised curbs on fossil fuel emissions and Marrakesh is due to start writing a "rule book", a process likely to take two years, to lay out how they will monitor and report their greenhouse gas emissions. UN warns cuts promised in Paris deal not nearly enough Trump says U.S. President Barack Obama's plans to cut greenhouse gases by 2025 would kill U.S. jobs and make the United States dependent on oil imports from the Middle East. Asked about Trump at a news conference, French Environment Minister Segolene Royal said she did not want to interfere in the U.S. election but conceded she had previously expressed hope that "this great country will turn to a woman as president." She also noted that the Paris Agreement lays out four years of formalities before any country can withdraw. The European Union said it would push ahead with the Paris Agreement. "Our legislation is in force regardless," said Gabriela Fischerova, head of the EU delegation. With files from Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories A checklist for watching the U.S. election: key times, races, issues to watch Growing fears that a Trump presidency would scrap Paris climate deal As Paris Agreement comes into effect, UN warns we are in 'a race against time' The average Canadian household destroys hockey rink-sized stretch of sea ice every 8 years How can Canada fulfil its climate commitment? 'Real climate leaders don't build pipelines,' say protesters occupying MP's office Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca