http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/how-dinosaurs-shrank-into-birds-1.2724110
How dinosaurs shrank into birds | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news How dinosaurs shrank into birds Social Sharing Technology & Science How dinosaurs shrank into birds Scientists have mapped how a group of fearsome, massive dinosaurs evolved and shrank to become the first birds. Social Sharing Theropods went from 270 kilograms to less than 1 over around 50 million years The Associated Press · Posted: Jul 31, 2014 2:37 PM ET | Last Updated: July 31, 2014 comments The dinosaur lineage that evolved into birds shrank in body size continuously for 50 million years. Click for bigger image. ( Davide Bonnadonna) Scientists have mapped how a group of fearsome, massive dinosaurs evolved and shrank to the likes of robins and hummingbirds. Comparing fossils of 120 different species and 1,500 skeletal features, especially thigh bones, researchers constructed a detailed family tree for the class of two-legged meat-eaters called theropods. That suborder of dinos survives to this day as birds, however unrecognizable and improbable it sounds. The steady downsizing and elegant evolution of the theropods is detailed in the journal Science on Thursday. Summary of the paper in Science "They just kept on shrinking and shrinking and shrinking for about 50 million years," said study author Michael S. Y. Lee of the University of Adelaide in Australia. He called them "shape-shifters." A flock of early birds (Longirostravis) preen one of their large dinosaurian relatives (Yutyrannus). Both species lived during the Cretaceous Period (around 120 million years ago) in what is now northern China. (Brian Choo) Lee and colleagues created a dinosaur version of the iconic ape-to-man drawing of human evolution. In this version, the lumbering large dinos shrink, getting more feathery and big-chested, until they are the earliest version of birds. For a couple decades scientists have linked birds to this family of dinosaurs because they shared hollow bones, wishbones, feathers and other characteristics. But the Lee study gives the best picture of how steady and unusual theropod evolution was. The skeletons of theropods changed four times faster than other types of dinosaurs, the study said. Tyrannosaurs prowled in packs, B.C. tracks show A few members of that dino family did not shrink, including T. rex, which is more of a distant cousin to birds than a direct ancestor, Lee said. Consistent shrinking He said he and colleagues were surprised by just how consistently the theropods shrank over evolutionary time, while other types of dinosaurs showed ups and downs in body size. Meet the ancestors: The feathered dinosaur Microraptor pounces on a nest of primitive birds (Sinornis). Both species lived during the Cretaceous Period (around 120 million years ago) in what is now northern China. (Brian Choo) The first theropods were large, weighing around 270 kilograms (600 pounds). They roamed about 220 million to 230 million years ago. Then about 200 million years ago, when some of the creatures weighed about 160 kilograms (360 pounds), the shrinking became faster and more prolonged, the study said. In just 25 million years, the beasts were slimmed down to barely 45 kilograms (100 pounds). By 167 million years ago, 3-kilogram (6-pound) paravians, more direct ancestor of birds, were around. Feathered plant-eating dinosaur found And 163 million years ago the first birds, weighing less than a kilogram, probably came on the scene, the study said Paul Sereno, a dinosaur researcher at the University of Chicago who wasn't part of this study, praised Lee's work as innovative. The steady size reduction shows "something very strange going on," Sereno said. "This is key to what went on at the origin of birds." People may think bigger is better, but sometimes when it comes to evolution smaller can be better because bigger creatures are more likely to go extinct, Sereno said. And when the theropods started shrinking there weren't many other small species that would compete with them, Lee said. "The dinosaur ancestors of birds found a new niche and a new way of life," Lee said. Sereno added, "When you are small, it's a totally different ball game. You can fly and glide and I think that's what drove it." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Feathered plant-eating dinosaur found Tyrannosaurs prowled in packs, B.C. tracks show Ancient bird Archaeopteryx's feathery details revealed by fossil Dinosaurs weren't warm-blooded, study suggests External Links Summary of the paper in Science University of Adelaide news release Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca