https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/dinosaur-has-modern-feathers-experts-1.318424
Dinosaur has 'modern' feathers: experts | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Dinosaur has 'modern' feathers: experts Social Sharing Technology & Science Dinosaur has 'modern' feathers: experts Paleontologists working in China have found the first fossil of a dinosaur with modern feathers, like those of birds Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Mar 06, 2002 3:39 PM ET | Last Updated: March 6, 2002 Paleontologists working in China have found the first fossil of a dinosaur with modern feathers, like those of birds. The American and Chinese researchers said their discovery shows that feathers evolved before birds or flight. The fossil shows impressions of feathers in the rock, including a long plume of tail feathers, the paleontologists said. The specimen is now at the Beipiao Paleontological Museum in China. An article on the fossil was published in Thursday's issue of Nature. The study's lead author, Mark Norell of the American Museum of Natural History, said this is the first unequivocal evidence of complete feathers on a non-bird dinosaur. Previous feather dinosaur fossils from the same site in China have shown downy, fluffy feathers. FROM April 28, 2001: Feathered dinosaur fossil found The research team said this fossil, on the other hand, shows feathers that have a central hollow shaft, just as modern bird feathers do. The 128-million-year-old fossil is a metre-long theropod called a dromaeosaur. The two-legged carnivore couldn't fly, but might have used its feathers for warmth, suggesting they were warm-blooded animals. Because the first theropods lived 235 million years ago, they were probably the first to evolve feathers, said Norell. The first birds appeared about 150 million years ago. Critics of Norell's work are skeptical, though. They say it's difficult to be sure if the fossil actually has modern-looking feathers with only photos to look at. Storrs Olson, senior zoologist at the National Museum of Natural History in Washington, even said he wants to be sure the specimen hasn't had fossilized feathers added to it from another source. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Nature Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca