http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/paris-climate-deal-targets-1.3834224
Day before Paris deal comes into effect, UN report warns promised cuts not nearly enough | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Day before Paris deal comes into effect, UN report warns promised cuts not nearly enough Social Sharing Technology & Science Day before Paris deal comes into effect, UN report warns promised cuts not nearly enough The world is nowhere near on track to achieve the ambitious temperature goals adopted in the landmark Paris Agreement on climate change, the UN said Thursday in a sobering report that warned of a human tragedy unless governments stepped up efforts to fight global warming. Social Sharing 'Hunger, poverty, illness and conflict will be a constant reminder of our failure to deliver,' UN says The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 03, 2016 8:27 AM ET | Last Updated: November 3, 2016 A man wears a polar bear costume as he participates in a human chain protest demonstration near the Eiffel Tower in Paris, France, during the World Climate Change Conference 2015. A scathing new report says the world is not even close to being on track to hitting the targets laid out in the Paris deal. (Mal Langsdon/Reuters) The world is nowhere near on track to achieve the ambitious temperature goals adopted in the landmark Paris Agreement on climate change, the UN said Thursday in a sobering report that warned of a human tragedy unless governments stepped up efforts to fight global warming. The UN Environment Program said the world needs to slash its annual greenhouse gas emissions by an additional 12 billion-14 billion metric tonnes by 2030 to have a chance of limiting global warming to 2 C. That's the temperature goal that countries agreed to in the Paris pact, which takes effect Friday after countries ratified it much faster than anticipated. To put the challenge into perspective, UNEP noted that the gap is 12 times the annual emissions of the 28-nation European Union's transport sector, including aviation. 5 communities threatened by climate change now "The science shows that we need to move much faster," said UNEP leader Erik Solheim. "The growing numbers of climate refugees hit by hunger, poverty, illness and conflict will be a constant reminder of our failure to deliver." Solheim said increased efforts by governments need to start with the U.N. climate conference being held over the coming two weeks in Marrakech, Morocco. The science shows that we need to move much faster. - Erik Solheim,UN Environment Program The 2 C target is relative to before the industrial revolution, when scientists say humans started altering the climate system by releasing greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, primarily carbon dioxide from fossil fuels. Temperatures have already gone up by about 1 C since then. Betty Guerrero throws dirty water which was used for laundry, outside her home at Nuevo Pachacutec shantytown on the outskirts of Lima's port of Callao Dec. 11, 2014. Water will become scarcer in sprawling settlements such as Nuevo Pachacutec on the Pacific coast as the population of Peru's capital surges and global warming thaws Andean glaciers, reducing flows in coming decades as the ice disappears. (Mariana Bazo/Reuters) In its annual emissions report, UNEP projected that annual emissions cannot exceed 42 billion tonnes of CO2 by 2030 for the world to have a chance to meet the 2 C goal. But even with the reductions pledged for the Paris Agreement, emissions are set to reach 54 billion-56 billion tonnes in 2030, which leaves the world on a path of 2.9 -3.4 C of warming, UNEP said. Record warmth, and getting hotter Last year was the warmest on record and this year is on track to be even warmer, preliminary analyses show. Carbon dioxide levels reach highest point ever, likely for good Scientists say the buildup of CO2 and other greenhouse gases is raising temperatures by trapping heat in the atmosphere. As a result, glaciers and ice sheets are melting, sea levels are rising and many parts of the world are experiencing more intense heat waves and droughts. Children play amid icebergs on the beach in Nuuk, Greenland, June 5, 2016. Climate change means glaciers and ice sheets are melting, sea levels are rising and many parts of the world are experiencing more intense heat waves and droughts. (Alister Doyle/Reuters) The 2 C target was established as a threshold to avoid the worst impacts of climate change. But the Paris deal also set an aspirational goal of limiting warming to 1.5 C, a demand from the most vulnerable countries, such as low-lying island nations that may not survive the sea-level rise associated with 2 degrees of warming. To have a shot at 1.5 C, the world needs to slash annual emissions by an additional 15 billion-17 billion tonnes by 2030, the UNEP report said. Report outlines climate change challenges on Canada's Arctic coast Some analysts question whether that's even feasible, given current emissions trends. Global emissions increase every year, reaching 52.7 billion tonned in 2014, primarily driven by the rapid expansion of China, India and other Asian economies. China is the world's largest polluter, followed by the United States. A woman wears a mask as she takes pictures on the Bund on a hazy day in Shanghai, China, March 7, 2016. Global carbon emissions increase every year, primarily driven by the rapid expansion of China, India and other Asian economies. (Aly Song/Reuters) Emissions from fossil fuels — the biggest source of emissions — have stabilized in recent years, but UNEP's report said it's too early to say whether that's a temporary or a permanent change. This year countries took another step to limit emissions by agreeing to slash the use of hydrofluorocarbons, a powerful greenhouse gas used in refrigerators, freezers and air conditioners. UNEP noted that early studies suggest the move could cut 0.5 C of warming if fully implemented. Trudeau gives provinces until 2018 to adopt carbon price plan CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Global carbon dioxide levels reach highest point ever, likely for good Greenland ice sheet melting 7% faster than believed, says new GPS study Justin Trudeau gives provinces until 2018 to adopt carbon price plan 'Historic agreement:' Canada signs on to world's 1st airline climate plan China goes from red-alert pollution to green energy Climate change could harm relationships between predator and prey, says researcher Oilsands emissions capped at 100 megatonnes a year under new bill In Depth Can a B.C.-inspired U.S. carbon tax compete with Trump and Clinton? Video All federal government buildings to run on green power by 2025: environment minister Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca