https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/software-billionaire-books-2nd-trip-to-space-1.753160
Software billionaire books 2nd trip to space | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Software billionaire books 2nd trip to space Social Sharing Technology & Science Software billionaire books 2nd trip to space Software billionaire Charles Simonyi, the fifth private traveller or "space tourist" to visit the International Space Station, is poised to become the first to make a return trip. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Oct 02, 2008 10:56 AM ET | Last Updated: October 2, 2008 Software billionaire Charles Simonyi, the fifth private traveller or "space tourist" to visit the International Space Station, is poised to become the first to make a return trip. Vienna, Va.-based Space Adventures, the company that brokers the trips with Russia's space agency, announced Wednesday the 60-year-old Simonyi intends to train with a Russian crew preparing for a spring mission to the orbiting station. Simonyi flew aboard a Russian Soyuz spacecraft to the ISS on a 13-day mission in April 2007. "Having a repeat orbital client demonstrates to the world that participating in a space mission is truly a magnificent and awe-inspiring experience," said Eric Anderson, president and CEO of Space Adventures in a statement. Simonyi, who who now runs his own company, made his fortune while working at Microsoft, where he developed some of its most profitable programs, such as Word and Excel. He reportedly paid Space Adventures $25 million US to make the first trip. Space Adventures did not say how much the second trip would cost. The next civilian scheduled to make a trip aboard a Russian rocket to the space station is video game pioneer Richard Garriott, the son of NASA astronaut Owen Garriott. He is due to fly to the space station on Oct. 12. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Civilians in space FAQs Russian rocket carrying 'space tourist' lifts off External Links Space Adventures statement Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca