https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/un-climate-talks-fracture-over-future-of-carbon-markets-1.2676535
UN climate talks fracture over future of carbon markets | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news UN climate talks fracture over future of carbon markets Social Sharing Technology & Science UN climate talks fracture over future of carbon markets The use of carbon markets to curb rising greenhouse gas emissions was dealt a blow on Sunday after two weeks of United Nations talks on designing and reforming the mechanisms ended in deadlock. Social Sharing Negotiatons on Clean Development Mechanism reforms halted Thomson Reuters · Posted: Jun 15, 2014 7:49 PM ET | Last Updated: June 15, 2014 Two weeks of United Nations talks involving 200 nations made little progress on top of the carbon markets. The use of carbon markets to curb rising greenhouse gas emissions was dealt a blow on Sunday after two weeks of United Nations talks on designing and reforming the mechanisms ended in deadlock. The negotiations, held as part of UN climate negotiations in Bonn, Germany, made scant progress as envoys representing almost 200 nations tied reforms to progress under the wider discussions and remained entrenched in diverse positions. The stalemate gives investors little sign that there will be a pickup in demand under the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), the UN's current main carbon market which has seen activity dry up after funnelling over $400 billion into emission-cutting projects in developing countries over the past decade. Tony Abbott, Stephen Harper take hard line against carbon tax UN chief calls for 'greater action' on climate change Global warming dials up our risks, UN report says It also offers no guidance on how the growing patchwork of national and regional carbon markets worldwide will fit into a future international framework to tackle climate change. "It is disappointing we didn't move forward," said Elina Bardram, an official at the European Commission representing the 28 EU nations at the talks. "We believe there is a future for markets ... (but) to agree on something that wouldn't be robust enough for us to engage on later on would just not make any sense," she told journalists at a briefing after the talks ended on Sunday. Divisive measures Big-emitting businesses and rich nations including the United States, Japan, and members of the European Union, favour designing new market-based mechanisms to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions as cheaply as possible. Poorer nations have been more wary, particularly as most CDM investment went to wealthier emerging nations such as Brazil and China for industrial gas destruction projects, which generated healthy profits for companies but led to little sustainable development and had their environmental integrity questioned. Negotiations over a raft of CDM reform proposals broke down over whether to study how to convert the CDM to generate net emission reductions, rather than merely to generate carbon credits that can be used by developing countries to offset their emissions. Efforts to include the option were led by a group of over 40 low-lying island developing nations most at risk of being submerged by rising sea levels due to global warming. It was also backed by the EU, which has used the lion's share of CDM credits to date but wants to scale up global emission reduction efforts and encourage richer developing countries to pay for their own emission cuts. Some other developing nations blocked the move, reflecting a wider 20-year distinction in UN climate negotiations that has put the onus on industrialized nations to curb global greenhouse gas output because of their historical responsibility for emissions and capacity to pay. The deadlock dismayed other poorer nations keen to tap CDM investment. "We are disappointed by the lack of progress; the CDM has not yet seen its way to Africa," said a spokesman for Sudan on behalf of a bloc of 54 African nations. Framework falls In a separate strand of the talks, governments failed to make much progress on efforts to launch a platform to help set common standards and accounting rules for reducing emissions and tie together national and regional emissions trading schemes. Separate text listing elements of such a platform, referred to a "Framework for Various Approaches", was promoted by a group of richer nations including United States and Japan, which are both designing their own programs to use foreign carbon credits. But this was removed after meeting resistance from developing nations, which first want rich governments to take on deeper emission reduction targets at home. Small island states and the EU are also concerned about advancing work on the framework without safeguards to assess the environmental integrity of new schemes, according to negotiators and observers to the mostly closed-door talks. The EU, whose draft contribution towards a Paris deal contained no firm additional demand for foreign carbon credits to 2030, has been criticized by investor groups for undermining its leadership role in new carbon market development. But the EU's Bardram defended the approach. She said the bloc was committed to developing market-based measures in the long term if other nations made comparable commitments. "We do need to allow for a situation to develop whereby other partners have sufficient ambition for a truly global market to develop," she said. The UN talks are scheduled to resume at the next negotiating round in December in Lima, Peru. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories EU toughens carbon trading system Tony Abbott, Stephen Harper take hard line against carbon tax Obama's aggressive climate-change move and Canada's response IMF head says world must come to grips with climate change costs Obama's carbon-cutting plan might go up in smoke: Don Pittis Australia to scrap carbon tax in favour of emissions trading Carbon trading no cure-all Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca