https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/spaceship-scouting-moon-enters-lunar-orbit-1.831194
Spaceship scouting moon enters lunar orbit | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Spaceship scouting moon enters lunar orbit Social Sharing Technology & Science Spaceship scouting moon enters lunar orbit NASA's unmanned lunar spacecraft is now in orbit around the moon, the start of a mission to observe its environment in preparation for future manned endeavours. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jun 23, 2009 1:16 PM ET | Last Updated: June 23, 2009 NASA's unmanned lunar spacecraft is now in orbit around the moon after a 4½-day journey from Earth, the start of a mission to scout the moon's environment in preparation for future manned endeavours. The Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter entered orbit at 6:27 a.m. ET on Tuesday, but it will take the spacecraft close to two months before it enters its mission orbit of about 50 kilometres above the moon's cratered surface. Once in mission orbit, the spacecraft will use its suite of scientific instruments to compile high-resolution, three-dimensional maps of the lunar surface. The probe will also map the moon's craters for permanently shadowed and sunlit regions, information useful for planning potential locations of a moon base. In 2006, NASA laid out its ambitious plans to send people back to the moon in 2020 and begin work on a lunar base in 2024. Several other countries with space ambitions, including China, Russia and Japan, also unveiled plans to establish their own base there and have begun work to analyze the moon's surface. Earlier this month, Japan crash-landed its Kaguya lunar probe after two years in orbit. While NASA's lunar orbiter took less than a week to arrive at the moon, a second, smaller probe launched at the same time won't be coming to the moon until October. But when it does, it will, like Japan's probe, arrive with a bang. The Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite (LCROSS) is currently in an elongated orbit around the Earth, building up speed to help propel the probe on a collision course with the moon's south pole in October. NASA hopes the crash landing will be a spectacular smash-up, sending roughly 350,000 tonnes of debris into the sunlight that the space agency hopes to study to look for evidence of water ice, and get a better idea of the mineral composition of the moon beneath the surface. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Rocket launch signals NASA's return to moon India lands probe on moon NASA plans permanent outpost on moon by 2024 Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca