https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/top-10-species-of-2014-include-olinguito-antarctic-anemone-1.2649964
Top 10 species of 2014 include olinguito, Antarctic anemone | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Top 10 species of 2014 include olinguito, Antarctic anemone Social Sharing Technology & Science Top 10 species of 2014 include olinguito, Antarctic anemone A teddy bear-faced carnivore from the Andean cloud forests and a ghostly cave snail that travels only a few centimetres per week have been named among the top 10 species of 2014. Social Sharing Dragon tree, Tinkerbell fairyfly among 18,000 new species CBC News · Posted: May 22, 2014 12:15 AM ET | Last Updated: May 22, 2014 Previous Next Hide caption Toggle Fullscreen1 of 0 comments A teddy bear-faced carnivore from the Andean cloud forests and a ghostly cave snail that travels only a few centimetres per week have been named among the top 10 species of 2014. The 10 species chosen by an international group of taxonomists from 18,000 new species named last year were announced Thursday by the International Institute for Species Exploration at the State University of New York's College of Environmental Science and Forestry. The goal of the annual list is to draw attention to the loss of biodiversity and the discoveries of new species that are made "even as species are going extinct faster than they are being identified." "One of the most inspiring facts about the top 10 species of 2014 is that not all of the 'big' species are already known or documented," said Antonio Valdecasas, chair of the selection committee, in a statement, noting the discovery of the cat-sized olinguito in the Andes mountains of South America and the 12-metre tall Kaweesak's dragon tree in Thailand. The list has been released annually since 2008 in honour of the May 23 birthday of Carolus Linnaeus, an 18th century Swedish botanist considered to be the father of modern taxonomy. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories New mammal discovered in Andean cloud forest Sea anemones found living beneath Antarctic ice shelf Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca