https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/early-humans-in-western-europe-1-3-million-years-ago-study-suggests-1.748180
Early humans in Western Europe 1.3 million years ago, study suggests | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Early humans in Western Europe 1.3 million years ago, study suggests Social Sharing Technology & Science Early humans in Western Europe 1.3 million years ago, study suggests A new study from Spanish scientists suggests that early humans may have lived in Western Europe as long as 1.3 million years ago, much earlier than previously believed. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Mar 27, 2008 10:12 AM ET | Last Updated: March 27, 2008 A new study from Spanish scientists suggests that early humans may have lived in Western Europe as long as 1.3 million years ago, much earlier than previously believed. A mandible discovered in northern Spain has been dated to 1.3 million years old. ((EIA/Jordi Mestre)) In a study released Wednesday in the journal Nature, researchers report finding a jaw bone, teeth and simple tools that have been dated between 1.2 to 1.3 million years old. The research team led by José María Bermúdez de Castro, a co-ordinator at Spain's National Research Centre on Human Evolution, and Eudald Carbonell, director of the Catalan Institute of Human Paleo-Ecology and Social Evolution, made the discovery in a cave near the city of Atapuerca in northern Spain. The team said it dated the fossils using a variety of techniques. They also calculated the age of the rocks in which the fossils were found, somewhere between 1.1 and 1.2 million years ago. Their results place the fossils at more than 400,000 years before the previous oldest known fossils in Western Europe, which were found in 1997 at a separate Atapuerca excavation site. Same species as Homo antecessor The 1997 find prompted the naming of the new species Homo antecessor, a possible ancestor of Neanderthals and modern humans. The scientists said the newly discovered fossils appear to belong to the same species. Additionally, the researchers said their finding also has similarities to much older fossils that were dug up in Georgia and have been dated to 1.8 million years old. The study said their research, combined with findings from other sites, suggests that Western Europe was settled by an early human population from the east during the early Pleistocene Epoch, from 1.6 million to 10,000 years ago. "This leads us to a very important, very interesting conclusion," Carbonell told the Associated Press, that early humans who emerged from Africa and settled in the Caucasus eventually evolved into Homo antecessor and populated Europe more than one million years ago. Faster than previously thought "The discovery of a 1.3 million-year-old fossil shows the process was accelerated and continuous; that the occupation of Europe happened very early and much faster than we had thought," he said. He added that with this finding, researchers can now expect to uncover even older fossils in other parts of the continent. "This has to be the next discovery," he said. "This is the scientific hypothesis." With files from the Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Nature Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca