https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/international-polar-year-program-to-chronicle-climate-change-1.662982
International Polar Year program to chronicle climate change | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news International Polar Year program to chronicle climate change Social Sharing Technology & Science International Polar Year program to chronicle climate change Thousands of scientists from more than 60 countries will head to the Arctic and Antarctic regions in an ambitious two-year project to begin on Thursday to study the effects of global warming. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Feb 26, 2007 12:52 PM ET | Last Updated: February 26, 2007 Thousands of scientists from more than 60 countries will head to the Arctic and Antarctic regions in an ambitious two-year project beginning Thursday to study the effects of global warming. The International Polar Year (IPY) program will be the fourth comprehensive study of the two regions and the first in 50 years. Scientists will pursue physical, biological and social research of the Arctic and Antarctic from March 2007 to March 2009 in an attempt to gauge the impact of climate change on regions expected to be particularly vulnerable to rising temperatures. More than 50,000 scientists will work on 228 projects, chronicling changes in snow and ice patterns and the impact of these changes on other regions around the globe. In addition to climate change, the research will look at the unique biodiversity and physical geography of the regions and the culture of northern peoples. It's the first polar study since a 1957 to 1958 study that featured the first overland crossing of Antarctica. Two other studies were conductedfrom 1882 to 1883 and from 1932 to 1933. The latest polar research program will take place against a backdrop of rising concern about the future of the glaciers in the two polar regions. The February report from the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change called global warming "unequivocal" and predicted average worldwide annual temperatures would increase between 1.8 and four degrees C over the next century and a rise in sea levels ofbetween 18 and 59 cm over the same time period. It also said the increase in temperatures would be greater in the two polar regions. But scientists are still relying on sparse information from a few on-site observation facilities in the Arctic and Antarctic, said Michel Jarraud, the Secretary-General of the World Meteorological Organization, the organization leading the research along with the International Council for Science. "It is essential to install more and increase satellite coverage to gain a better overall picture of how rapidly these areas are changing, and of the global impact of these changes," he said. The IPY program will formally begin in Paris on Thursday, March 1, but opening ceremonies were scheduled on Monday, February 25 in London, Washington and Strasbourg, Germany. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories In Depth: Climate change 'unequivocal' In Depth: Global warming explained Interactive: Snapshots of a warming world Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca