https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/endeavour-astronauts-finish-1st-spacewalk-1.799142
Endeavour astronauts finish 1st spacewalk | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Endeavour astronauts finish 1st spacewalk Social Sharing Technology & Science Endeavour astronauts finish 1st spacewalk Two astronauts from the space shuttle Endeavour completed the mission's first spacewalk on Saturday, spending more than five hours completing numerous tasks outside the International Space Station. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 18, 2009 3:00 PM ET | Last Updated: July 18, 2009 In this image taken from video and provided by NASA Saturday, astronaut Tim Kopra stows tools in the payload bay of the space shuttle Endeavour while in the background the International Space Station and the shuttle's robot arms grapple a four-tonne experiment shelf. ((NASA TV/Reuters)) Two astronauts from the space shuttle Endeavour completed the mission's first spacewalk on Saturday, spending more than five hours completing tasks outside the International Space Station. Americans Dave Wolf and Timothy Kopra began their work by preparing to attach a new platform to the Japanese science lab on the space station, a job that was made difficult by chronic microphone static from their helmets. The so-called "porch in space" is an experiment shelf that weighs about four tonnes. The installation was to be completed later Friday through the use of both the shuttle and space station's robotic arms. The shelf is the third and final piece of the Kibo science lab and will allow experiments to be exposed to the vacuum of space. The two astronauts also managed to free another space station platform for spare parts that jammed months ago, using a specially designed tool. But they did not have time to release a similar platform on the opposite side of the outpost. NASA officials said the communications problem caused by the microphone static was a nuisance but not a safety issue, and they hoped to resolve the problem before the next spacewalk on Monday. During five more followup spacewalks scheduled for every other day during the 11-day stay at the station, cameras and other equipment will be secured to the platform. Heat shield looks intact: NASA Endeavour arrived at the space station on Friday. Before docking it performed a backflip to allow cameras on the space station to take pictures of the shuttle's heat shield. Canadian Julie Payette, the flight engineer on the seven-member shuttle crew, guided Endeavour's camera-equipped Canadarm, checking for possible damage. NASA engineers said the analysis of the photos was continuing, but so far, the heat shield looks intact. An unusually large amount of foam broke off Endeavour's fuel tank at liftoff and some pieces dinged the shuttle. After the shuttle docking, Payette floated into the station and gave another Canadian, Robert Thirsk, a hug. The greeting marked the first time two Canadian astronauts were in space together. A news conference with the Canadian pair is scheduled for Sunday night via video link. With files from The Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Canadians meet at space station NASA inspects shuttle for launch damage Shuttle launches carrying Canadian Payette PHOTO GALLERY: Endeavour lifts off Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca