http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/caribou-habitat-in-alberta-ravaged-beyond-repair-1.2745870
Caribou habitat in Alberta ravaged beyond repair | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Caribou habitat in Alberta ravaged beyond repair Social Sharing Technology & Science Caribou habitat in Alberta ravaged beyond repair Scientists studying the ravaged caribou habitat of Alberta's northwestern foothills say they have found so much disturbance from decades of industrial use that restoration of the terrain will have to be selective. Social Sharing Disturbance in Alberta's northwestern foothills will make restoration selective The Canadian Press · Posted: Aug 25, 2014 11:35 AM ET | Last Updated: August 26, 2014 Wild caribou need safe habitats to roam freely. This group in the tundra in Nunavut is thriving after a decade of decline a hope for the caribou population in Alberta. (Nathan Denette/Canadian Press) comments Scientists studying the ravaged caribou habitat of Alberta's northwestern foothills say they have found so much disturbance from decades of industrial use that restoration of the terrain will have to be selective. "There's just so much disturbance, it's important we prioritize," said Laura Finnegan, a biologist with the Foothills Research Institute in Hinton, Alta. Alberta selling mountain caribou habitat Aboriginal groups fear for George River caribou herd George River caribou population continues alarming decline The institute is one year into a three-year study on how animals and humans continue to use this ragged landscape in an effort to understand how to best restore it. Governments are counting on that work to help them live up to promises of sustainable development. Deforestation worse than in Brazil This stretch of foothills still looks like pristine, trackless boreal forest when seen from the highway. But back roads into the bush reveal a patchwork of clearcuts, well pads, access roads and seismic lines so extensive that gravel and green greet the eye almost equally. Scientists are trying to remediate the lines that help wolves get deep into the forest of Alberta's foothills and are partly responsible for vanishing caribou herds, but there are so many that they're focusing on which ones would do the most good. (HO, Foothills Research Institute/Canadian Press) It's part of an area that recent satellite data suggests is being deforested at a rate that outpaces what's going on in Brazil's rainforests. There are more than 16,000 kilometres of seismic lines, cut by the energy industry through the forest, within the study area's 13,000 square kilometres. About five per cent of range for the Little Smoky and a la Peche caribou herds remains undisturbed — a long way from the federal government's 65 per cent target. Watch "Billion Dollar Caribou" on CBC's The Nature of Things Finnegan and her colleagues are trying to figure out how to bridge that gap. Their first step is to understand how both animals and humans are using what's on the ground. That means understanding the impact of seismic lines, which are used to study geology underground. Wolves normally prefer to prey on deer and moose, but seismic lines allow them to penetrate into the deep woods where caribou hide. Caribou also normally avoid coming within 500 metres of a seismic line, making every line, in effect, a kilometre wide. It takes up to 70 years in this cold climate for nature to efface a seismic line. The passage of even a single quad can retard that restorative creep by crushing plants and compacting soil. "You can just look at the vegetation on the line and you'll see tracks," Finnegan said. Snowmobiles ravaging the terrain Researchers have used sophisticated satellite-based radar to map average vegetation heights across the entire study area to within a few centimetres. They've erected motion-sensitive cameras on selected seismic lines to record what's using them — caribou, wolves and snowmobilers alike. Preliminary results suggest there's a threshold at which the lines are no longer an easy way for animals to get around. "Seismic lines with vegetation heights less than 1.4 metres facilitate movement by caribou predators," says the institute's report. Human use is more complex. Snowmobilers and quadders prefer little ground cover and dry soils as well as lower vegetation. "Human motorized use of seismic lines is extensive across the range of a la Peche and Little Smoky caribou, and the probability of high levels of motorized human use increased when vegetation height along seismic lines was less than two metres in height," says the report. Mapping where seismic lines attractive to predators and humans cross what used to be the best caribou habitat could suggest where restoration could do the most good, the researchers say. Such maps have been produced for the institute's preliminary report. Priority seismic lines for restoration will still add up to many hundreds of kilometres — and the study area is only one small part of a heavily affected natural region that stretches almost all the way down Alberta's western edge. But the institute's work could provide at least a plan to get started, Finnegan said. "That's the primary goal of this research, so that land managers on the ground could look at it and know where to begin." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Billion Dollar Caribou on The Nature of Things Porcupine caribou herd winter habitat could shrink in 100 years: study Quebec court upholds Cree, Inuit, Naskapi rights on caribou N.L. government bans hunt for George River caribou Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca