https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/moon-landing-conspiracy-theories-persist-1.836534
Moon landing conspiracy theories persist | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Moon landing conspiracy theories persist Social Sharing Technology & Science Moon landing conspiracy theories persist Forty years after the first moon landing, some continue to insist it was all nothing but a hoax staged by NASA and the U.S. government. Social Sharing Some continue to believe lunar missions were faked Tim Duboyce · CBC News · Posted: Jul 20, 2009 8:19 AM ET | Last Updated: July 17, 2009 NASA's release of newly "enhanced" footage of the first moonwalk, and the admission the original tapes which captured Neil Armstrong's 'giant leap for mankind' had likely been erased, are only helping fuel skeptics' doubts that the Apollo missions even took place. Grainy archive footage has been digitally remastered in Hollywood, after NASA admitted it likely recycled (taped over) the original tapes as a cost-saving measure. A common practice for the U.S. space agency in the 1970s and '80s. Some conspiracy theorists suggest NASA footage – original or not – which depicts Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin during the first lunar landing, shows an American flag flapping in the breeze, even though the surface of the moon is in the vacuum of space, with no air or wind. The original conspiracy theorist Many regard author William Kaysing (1922 - 2005) as the father of the moon landing hoax theory, thanks to his 1974 self-published book We Never Went To The Moon. Kaysing had worked at a Saturn V rocket engine manufacturing plant. His theory is built on a series of observations and suppositions regarding the 1969 mission to the moon, including: His claim that NASA did not possess the technical know-how to reach the moon. The absence of stars in photos taken on the moon's surface, even though there would have been no atmosphere to obscure the cosmos. The very survival of the film, which captured astronauts Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin walking on the moon's surface. Kaysing claimed it should have melted, due to radiation in space. According to a 1999 Gallup poll conducted on the eve of the 30th anniversary of the Apollo 11 mission, six per cent of Americans believed the moon landings were staged, and never really took place. Another five per cent had no opinion. Disbelievers suggest NASA and the U.S. government faked it in order to appear to win the space race with Russia, and to divert attention away from the war in Vietnam. Proof of landings rock hard But officials appear to defend the authenticity of the lunar landings. An article which appears on NASA's website states: They didn't return from the moon empty-handed, either. Just as Columbus carried a few hundred natives back to Spain as evidence of his trip to the New World, Apollo astronauts brought 841 pounds of moon rock home to Earth. In a separate article, NASA says Armstrong and Aldrin not only brought home proof of their lunar conquest, but also left a relic of their visit: the Lunar Laser Ranging Retroreflector Array. It's a two-foot wide panel studded with 100 mirrors pointing at Earth, which reflects laser pulses sent to measure the distance between our planet and the moon. NASA says it's the only Apollo science experiment still running. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca