http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/anthropocene-paper-1.3393823
A new geological epoch, the Anthropocene, has begun, scientists say | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news A new geological epoch, the Anthropocene, has begun, scientists say Social Sharing Technology & Science A new geological epoch, the Anthropocene, has begun, scientists say We're living through one of the most extraordinary events in Earth's history — the start of a new geological epoch caused by humans, an international group of scientists says. Social Sharing Humans have left mark in rock record like the meteor that ended Late Cretaceous, wiped out dinosaurs Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Jan 07, 2016 2:44 PM ET | Last Updated: January 7, 2016 The mushroom cloud of the first test of a hydrogen bomb "Ivy Mike" looms over the Pacific Ocean in 1952. Scientists propose that a new geological epoch, the Anthropocene, began in 1950, marked in rocks and sediments by the fallout from nuclear tests during the 1950s and 1960s. (Reuters) comments We're living through one of the most extraordinary events in Earth's history — the start of a new geological epoch, an international group of scientists says. Welcome to the Anthropocene, everyone. Geological epochs are long periods of time — typically lasting around two million years — separated by major, global changes to the planet, such as the massive exploding meteor that ended the Late Cretaceous and wiped out the dinosaurs. They've left a permanent record in our sediments and our soils and our glacial ice that's going to be detectable for millennia. - Colin Waters, Anthropocene Working Group Modern humans arose during the Pleistocene epoch, and since the sudden warming that ended the last ice age about 12,000 years ago, we had been living in the Holocene epoch. But modern human technology has had such a profound effect on our planet that we're now in a new epoch that started during the mid-20th century — the Anthropocene, argues an international group of researchers in a new paper published today in the journal Science. University of Alberta researcher Alexander Wolfe studies the remains of lake microorganisms in layers of sediments deposited over decades and centuries, and says he has personally observed enormous changes marking the past 50 years. (University of Alberta) The boundary between two epochs is visible to geologists as some kind of "marker" between layers of rock, soil or ice that are deposited all over the Earth over time. For example, the Late Cretaceous-ending meteor left a distinct layer of iridium. In the case of the Anthropocene, scientists note that humans have produced unusual materials like radioactive fallout from nuclear tests in the 1950s and 1960s. "They've left a permanent record in our sediments and our soils and our glacial ice that's going to be detectable for millennia," said Colin Waters, a geologist with the British Geological Survey and secretary of the Anthropocene Working Group, whose members authored the new report. "Geologists in millions of years time will look back at and say, 'Something quite incredible happened at this time' and be quite precise about when it happened." In their paper, the researchers added, "Not only would this represent the first instance of a new epoch having been witnessed firsthand by advanced human societies, it would be one stemming from the consequences of their own doing." Concrete is among the unusual materials - and a type of rock - that humans have spread all over the Earth in a distinct layer. A wide range of such materials is listed in the new paper. (John Woo/Reuters) Nobel Prize-winning scientist Paul Crutzen first proposed in 2002 that a new geological epoch called the Anthropocene be assigned to the present to describe the profound changes that humans have made to the planet. That eventually led the International Commission on Stratigraphy, the scientific body that officially decides when epochs begin and end, to ask a group of geologists, paleontologists and other scientists to look into whether there was enough science to back up that proposal. The Anthropocene Working Group has been working on the question since 2009. Many markers In the new paper summarizing their findings, they list a large number of "markers" that humans have left in rock, soil and ice around the world. In addition to the radioactive fallout, they make a note of: Pottery Glass Bricks Concrete Copper alloys Elemental aluminum (only found as an ore in nature). Plastics Black carbon and other particles from fossil fuel combustion. High levels of nitrogen and phosphorus from fertilizers and pesticides. The start of new epochs is often accompanied by climate change and mass extinctions, both of which humans are causing now. "Humans now control several of the fundamental dials or knobs on the planetary system," said Alexander Wolfe, an adjunct professor of paelobiology at the University of Alberta who is a member of the working group and a co-author of the paper. Wolfe studies the remains of lake microorganisms in sediments deposited over decades and centuries, and says he has personally observed enormous changes marking the past 50 years. Making new rocks Nevertheless, he acknowledged that the group has faced some criticism from people who feel the Earth hasn't had enough time to make enough rock to really define a new geological epoch. "The reality is we've done some calculations and there's the equivalent of one kilogram of concrete produced by humans for every square metre of the planet," he said. Plastics are also among man-made materials that will be found in ice and sediments from the past 50 years. (CP) The new epoch isn't official yet. The Anthropocene Working Group still needs to: Decide exactly when the Anthropocene began. Decide what formal marker they'll use to define it and then choose a location in which to drive a "golden spike" into the rock at that marker at a place on Earth where the marker is very distinct. Formally present its arguments to the International Commission of Stratigraphy and have them accepted. For now, the group suggests making the start 1950 — when humans started having a really major effect on the planet — and the marker of nuclear fallout from Cold War nuclear tests. "It's an absolutely bomber marker that fits right in the middle of this transition," Wolfe said. With files from Justin Hayward CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Humans causing catastrophic ecosystem shifts, study finds Was 1610 the start of the Age of Man? Bob's Blog Extinctions now 1,000 times faster than before humans Dinosaur extinction was caused by asteroid and volcanoes, study says Adventures in the Anthropocene Video World in 'biomass crisis,' new report finds External Links Summary of the paper in Science Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca