https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/homo-erectus-engraved-shell-is-about-half-a-million-years-old-1.2856379
Homo erectus engraved shell is about half-a-million years old | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Homo erectus engraved shell is about half-a-million years old Social Sharing Technology & Science Homo erectus engraved shell is about half-a-million years old Scientists have stumbled upon the oldest known shell to have been engraved by an early human - a Homo erectus from about half a million years ago. They found it in a Dutch museum collection, where it sat untouched since the 1930s. Social Sharing Shells sat in Dutch museum collection since the early 1900s Aleksandra Sagan · CBC News · Posted: Dec 03, 2014 1:00 PM ET | Last Updated: December 5, 2014 Detail of the engraving on a fossilized Pseudodon shell from the Trinil site in Indonesia. (Wim Lustenhouwer/VU University Amsterdam) comments Scientists have stumbled upon the oldest known shell to have been engraved by an early human - a Homo erectus from about half a million years ago. They found it in a Dutch museum collection, where it sat untouched since the 1930s. Researchers believe a Homo erectus etched a zig-zag pattern on top of the freshwater mollusk shell with a shark tooth or another sharp object some 430,000 to 540,000 years ago. The engraved shell is at least 300,000 years older than any other undisputed engravings of this nature. "It's something that we don't expect to find in deposits of that age," says Josephine Joordens, a post-doctoral researcher at Leiden University in the Netherlands and one of the researchers on the paper published in Nature. Listen to an interview with Joordens on CBC's Quirks & Quarks this week Read the research paper in Nature The shell came from a site in Java, Indonesia, where scientists have previously found remains of Homo erectus. Scientists have long debated whether geometric engravings are solely a human behaviour. "It's a species that before we have thought wasn't capable of making things like this," she says. "... Something that we recognize as typically human was produced by Homo erectus." 'Almost impossible' to determine what it means It's "almost impossible" to know what — if anything — the zig-zags represent. But, Joordens believes it was created with intent because of the difficulty of the task. The person who made it must have put effort in it and must have had some kind of intention or idea to make it. - Josephine Joordens, "You really have to be very careful. You have to have strong hands," says Joordens, adding that scientists attempted to create a similar engraving on a fresh shell. "... The person who made it must have put effort in it and must have had some kind of intention or idea to make it. But what that was, we simply cannot know." Joordens says it's "really remarkable" that the shell survived and didn't separate or disintegrate. After it was discarded, Joordens believes the shell was quickly covered by sediments, which helped preserve its condition. It lost some of its outer layer over time, but a faint remnant of the engraving remains because the Homo erectus etched it deep into the shell. Discovered 'purely by coincidence' The discovery of the engraved shell started "purely by coincidence," Joordens recalls. Joordens knew the Naturalis Museum's Dubois collection contained "box after box after box" of fossil freshwater mussel shells — 166 to be exact — that had last been studied in the 1930s. The fossilized Pseudodon shell with the engraving made by Homo erectus at the Trinil site in Indonesia. (Wim Lustenhouwer/VU University Amsterdam) When Stephen Munro, a colleague who studied shells, made a stopover in Amsterdam en route to Ethiopia, Joordens suggested he go through the museum's shell collection. Short on time, Munro photographed the specimens to study later. "It was only when he looked at the photos that he saw it for the first time," she says. It takes the perfect storm of conditions to notice the engraving if you're not expecting it, Joordens explains, saying it has to be held under the right light at a certain angle to stand out. "So many people must have had the shell in their hand, but they simply missed it," she says. Munro sent Joordens and a group of other scientists the photo to see if they could determine what the markings were. "Then, little by little, you are beginning to realize that it may be something — something real and something important," she says. The shell will be on display at the museum starting Wednesday. 'A real shell culture' for Java's Homo erectus The researchers also found one shell from the collection that had a smooth, polished edge and may have been used as a cutting or scraping tool. Wil Roebroeks, left, Josephine Joordens, centre, and Frank Wesselingh, right, look at the Naturalis museums new special exhibit featuring the shell they helped discover. (Marc de Haan/Leiden University) Homo erectus in Java appeared to have "a real shell culture," says Joordens. They ate fresh water shellfish and used the shells to produce tools and as a canvas for some of the earliest known drawings. "All that together is kind of exciting," she says. The scientists hope to continue their research and plan to re-examine the shells and spend some time looking at other understudied aspects of the Dubois collection. "We know that once you start looking and you start looking very well, you find things that you don’t expect," she says. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories CBC's Quirks & Quarks Modern humans may have copied Neanderthal technology Neanderthal genome may hold clues to human survival External Links Read the research paper in Nature Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca