https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/australia-ratifies-greenhouse-gas-targets-set-in-paris-1.3844949
Australia ratifies greenhouse gas targets set in Paris | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Australia ratifies greenhouse gas targets set in Paris Social Sharing Technology & Science Australia ratifies greenhouse gas targets set in Paris On Thursday Australia ratified its greenhouse gas emission targets agreed upon last year at the U.N. climate meeting in Paris. Social Sharing As scientists worry about what Trump's election might mean for climate change, Australia offers hope Rod McGuirk · The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 10, 2016 8:28 AM ET | Last Updated: November 10, 2016 Salt pans and small dams can be seen in drought-effected farming areas located on the outskirts of the Western Australian capital city of Perth, March 8, 2015. (Christine Cornege/New Zealand Herald/Associated Press) On Thursday Australia ratified its greenhouse gas emission targets agreed upon last year at the United Nations climate meeting in Paris. Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull told Parliament that Australia had become the 140th country to ratify the agreement signed by 196 nations in New York in April, following the December meeting in Paris. The pact commits countries to work toward limiting global warming to 2 C and set five-yearly targets for cutting emissions. Trump win the 'most miserable U.S. election result' for fighting climate change, scientists say 5 Canadian communities threatened by climate change now The countries that have ratified the deal include the United States and represent 70 percent of the world's emissions and three-quarters of global GDP. "Almost a year from the Paris conference, it is clear the agreement was a watershed, a turning point and the adoption of a comprehensive strategy has galvanized the international community and spurred on global action," Turnbull told reporters. He said Australia was on track to beat its 2020 targets. Foreign Minister Julie Bishop and Environment Minister Josh Frydenberg will next week join the U.N. climate change talks underway in Morocco. When Australia makes a commitment to a global agreement, we follow through and that is exactly what we are doing. - Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull The election of Donald Trump, who has called global warming a "hoax," is alarming environmentalists and climate scientists and raising questions about whether America, once again, would pull out of an international climate deal. Australia became the only industrialized nation to follow the U.S. in refusing to ratify the previous climate deal, the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. Turnbull ruled out Australian pulling out. "When Australia makes a commitment to a global agreement, we follow through and that is exactly what we are doing," he said. Ratification confirms Australia's target to reduce emissions by 26 to 28 per cent below 2005 levels by 2030. The government said its target was comparable with other advanced economies and on a per capita basis was one of the most ambitious targets in the G-20 group of countries. Prairie farmers expected to benefit from global warming by growing corn, soy How a 2 C temperature increase could change the planet CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Time to buy more Canadian wine? Climate change driving up prices from other wine regions New report outlines climate change challenges on Canada's Arctic coast 5 key points in Paris Agreement on climate change Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca