http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/neanderthals-incest-interspecies-sex-revealed-by-genome-1.2474245
Neanderthals' incest, interspecies sex revealed by genome | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Neanderthals' incest, interspecies sex revealed by genome Social Sharing Technology & Science Neanderthals' incest, interspecies sex revealed by genome Neanderthals liked to keep it in the family with DNA sequencing of an ancient toe revealing long-term inbreeding amongst a Siberian-based population. Social Sharing DNA extracted from a toe bone in the Siberian cave where first Denisovans were found Australian Broadcasting Corporation · Posted: Dec 23, 2013 10:45 AM ET | Last Updated: December 24, 2013 An exhibit shows the life of a Neanderthal family in a cave in the new Neanderthal Museum in Krapina, Croatia. A new analysis of Neanderthal DNA in a Siberian cave reveals rampant inbreeding. (Nikola Solic/Reuters) comments Neanderthals liked to keep it in the family with DNA sequencing of an ancient toe revealing long-term inbreeding amongst a Siberian-based population. The sequencing results, published today in the journal Nature, also reveal Neanderthals, early modern humans and a sister group to Neanderthals, Denisovans, met and reproduced in the Late Pleistocene between 12,000 and 126,000 years ago. Everyone is bonking everyone else … it's quite impressive. - Alan Cooper, University of Adelaide Alan Cooper, a professor at the Australian Centre for Ancient DNA at the University of Adelaide, says the study "completely rewrites what we know about human evolutionary history". "We now have a reasonably definitive picture of the mixing and matching of [hominin] groups through time," he says. And according to Cooper, the research reveals that "everyone is bonking everyone else … it's quite impressive". First author of the paper Kay Prufer, of the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Germany says the findings are based on DNA extracted from a toe bone found in the Siberian cave where the first Denisovan fossils were discovered in 2008. Genome of Denisovan cave girl sheds light on human ancestry The toe bone belonged to a Neanderthal woman who they estimate lived about 50,000 years ago, he says, adding that DNA analysis shows the woman's parents were very closely related. "We conclude the parents of this Neanderthal individual were either half-siblings who had a mother in common, double first cousins, an uncle and a niece, an aunt and a nephew, a grandfather and a granddaughter, or a grandmother and a grandson," the researchers write. Reason for extinction? Prufer says the analysis shows this inbreeding was not a rare event. "The parents were very closely related, but even if you ignore that [DNA analysis shows] … the past parents of the parents were related," he says. Prufer says the inbreeding suggests the Neanderthal population was quite small or fragmented and this may have played into their demise. "Of course if you have a small population size you begin to move into the danger zone [for extinction]," says Prufer. Cooper, who was not involved in the study, agrees: "If you are breeding with your uncle, your population is on the way out. The fact this group has been doing it for a while suggests it was in decline." Interbreeding across species As part of the study, the international team also compared genomes of Neanderthals, Denisovans and modern-day humans. Previous research has shown that while Neanderthals contributed to the genetic heritage of all modern populations outside Africa, Denisovans contributed exclusively to populations in Southeast Asia and Oceania. However Prufer says the analysis reveals the picture may be more complex. Their study shows gene flow from Neanderthals to Denisovans indicating interbreeding between the two groups. The Denisovan DNA also contained genetic material from an "unknown archaic human that lived a million years ago", says Prufer. He says this "unknown archaic human" could be Homo erectus, but further analysis is needed to determine its origins. Ancient human relative's DNA puzzles scientists Prufer says by comparing the genome of the various hominin groups, researchers will also be able to pinpoint the "defining changes" in genome that genetically make modern humans. Their work suggests the proportion of Neanderthal-derived DNA in all people outside Africa is about 1.5 to 2.5 per cent. 'Complicated and messy' Cooper says the findings show evolution works in a "complicated and messy fashion". "And when you try and reconstruct evolutionary history by looking at modern genetic data you get it completely wrong," he says. While the work is "very convincing" Cooper says it is unlikely to be the final version of evolution. "Five years ago we didn't even know of the existence of the Denisovans," he says. "It is an incremental process [but] these discoveries are really changing how we think about human evolution." Cooper says the sequencing of the genomes also opens up the possibility to "identify what bits of Neanderthal and Denisovan DNA survive in us and what they might be doing". CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Genome of Denisovan cave girl sheds light on human ancestry Ancient human relative's DNA puzzles scientists Modern humans may have copied Neanderthal technology Neanderthal genome may hold clues to human survival Sex with Neanderthals boosted human immunity New genome shows Neanderthal trace in humans External Links Max Planck Institute news release Summary of paper in Nature Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca