https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/virgin-galactic-unveils-new-spacecraft-design-1.719555
Virgin Galactic unveils new spacecraft design | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Virgin Galactic unveils new spacecraft design Social Sharing Technology & Science Virgin Galactic unveils new spacecraft design Virgin Galactic says it is one step closer to putting paying passengers into space with the unveiling of its new spacecraft design on Wednesday. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jan 23, 2008 1:36 PM ET | Last Updated: January 23, 2008 Virgin Galactic says it is one step closer to putting paying passengers into space with the unveiling of its new spacecraft design on Wednesday. The company, part of billionaire Sir Richard Branson's Virgin Group, introduced a model of the spaceship, which is to be powered by a Canadian-built engine, at the American Museum of Natural History in New York. Branson said the new design will allow Virgin Galactic to begin making commercial flights on a regular basis next year. "2008 is going to be the year of the spaceship. We're excited about this, and everything it will do," he told a press conference. SpaceShipTwo and its launch craft, WhiteKnightTwo, are based on open architecture, which means other aircraft designers will be free to work with Virgin Galactic to improve the ship. Company officials compared the design to Linux, the open-source operating system used in computers. "Our vision of WhiteKnightTwo would be part of a much longer development program — have open architecture like Linux to allow other people to develop new vehicles and revolutionize new industrial uses of space," said Virgin Galactic president Will Whitehorn. Engines for launch craft will come from Quebec The PW308 turbofan engines for WhiteKnightTwo are being supplied by Longueuil, Que.-based Pratt & Whitney Canada. Virgin Galactic has ordered five SpaceShipTwo aircraft with options for at least seven WhiteKnightTwo carrier aircraft, Pratt & Whitney said in a release. The WhiteKnightTwo will take off like an airplane, with the manned SpaceShipTwo attached underneath, then launch its load into suborbital space from about 15,000 metres. The first flight of the WhiteKnightTwo is planned for 2008, Pratt & Whitney said. SpaceShipTwo is about 60 per cent completed and will have test flights later this year, Virgin Galactic said. Virgin Galactic has so far signed up more than 150 passengers for flights, which cost about $200,000 U.S. per person. Physicist Stephen Hawking, former soap opera star Victoria Principal and designer Philippe Starck are among those who have signed up. The space trips will take off from a launch pad being built in New Mexico and last about two and a half hours. Passengers will experience about five minutes of weightlessness, Virgin Galactic said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Virgin Galactic eyes Sweden for European space tours Virgin Galactic, NASA to collaborate on research IN DEPTH: Space tourism FAQ Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca