https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/two-thirds-of-world-s-marine-species-still-unidentified-study-says-1.1297850
Two thirds of world's marine species still unidentified, study says | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Two thirds of world's marine species still unidentified, study says Social Sharing Technology & Science Two thirds of world's marine species still unidentified, study says Of an estimated one million species that make their home in the depths of the sea, as many as two-thirds of them are still a mystery, according to a new study. Social Sharing Just 226,000 of one million marine species have been catalogued, according to world register. The Canadian Press · Posted: Nov 16, 2012 10:31 AM ET | Last Updated: November 16, 2012 As many as 72,000 more specimens have been collected and are waiting to be described (Richard Green /REUTERS) The vast world that exists beneath the surface of the ocean remains largely unknown to humankind, say experts working on an international database of marine species. Of an estimated one million species that make their home in the depths of the sea, as many as two-thirds of them are still a mystery, says a study published this week in the academic journal Current Biology. Canada has more coastline than any other nation on Earth — a staggering 200,000 kilometres-plus — and the nation's territorial waters cover more than 7 million square kilometres over three different oceans. Canada is a world leader in marine research, but even here the sea still holds many surprises, says Gerhard Pohle, acting executive director of the Huntsman Marine Science Centre in St. Andrews, N.B. "There are an amazing amount of things, especially in the ocean, that we don't know in terms of biodiversity," says Pohle, who spent a decade taking part in an international Census of Marine Life, a decade-long project than concluded in 2010. It was only last year that scientists published research that estimated there are approximately 10 million distinct species on Earth, Pohle said. "It's staggering to think that as recently as 2011, we did not know how many species there are in the world by order of magnitude. The estimates were anywhere from three to 100 million species globally. That was it," Pohle says. "I'm somebody who works on this and when I saw it, I couldn't believe it." Catalogue of species The article estimates there are roughly one million marine species. A World Register of Marine Species has catalogued 226,000 of them so far. As many as 72,000 more specimens have been collected and are waiting to be described. "Knowing what lives in the ocean is fundamental to appreciate, care [for it] and protect it," said Ward Appeltans, one of the authors and the project manager of the Ocean Biogeographic Information System of UNESCO's Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission. "Having a single catalogue of all known marine species is like an index in a library. We can all start using the same species names, avoid confusion over names and make less mistakes." The register provides an invaluable base line for ocean life. "It is good though that there is increased interest in biodiversity," he said. "We are now not only looking at the stars, but also what lives on our planet. We can no longer neglect how much we depend on the ecosystem services and how each species contributes to the functioning of our biosphere." In Canada, the world registry spurred the creation of the Canadian Registry of Marine Species. The online, open-access databases allows scientists to focus on collecting and analyzing information, rather than cataloguing and maintaining disparate databases, said Claude Nozeres, a Quebec biologist who has worked for Fisheries and Oceans and contributed to both the Canadian and world registers. Canada is a major contributor to the international database, he said. One example is a large sea pen that lives in the Gulf of St. Lawrence that Nozeres said was forgotten for decades, until it was "rediscovered" in a federal Department of Fisheries and Oceans museum collection. The species has now been added to both databases. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Strombo: Marine Die-Ology? Australia creates world's largest marine reserve External Links Current Biology Current Biology Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca