https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/canada-s-arctic-researchers-call-for-polar-policy-1.902253
Canada's Arctic researchers call for polar policy | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Canada's Arctic researchers call for polar policy Social Sharing Technology & Science Canada's Arctic researchers call for polar policy Canada needs a national polar policy and better research co-ordination to effectively monitor the changing northern climate, a Canadian Arctic researcher says. Social Sharing John Bowman · CBC News · Posted: Jan 13, 2010 1:26 PM ET | Last Updated: January 13, 2010 Canada needs a national polar policy and better research co-ordination to effectively monitor the changing northern climate, says a Canadian Arctic researcher. The Canadian Coast Guard ship Amundsen is on the Canadian Polar Commission's list of Arctic research facilities. ((Emily Chung/CBC)) John England of the University of Alberta, writing in the journal Nature this week, said Canadian scientists are finding it more difficult to get to remote Arctic regions to conduct their research. "The capacity to support researchers in remote field sites has plummeted, making it difficult for Canadian researchers to continue crucial monitoring of the fast-changing Arctic environment, from receding glaciers to disappearing polar bear habitat," wrote England. Compounding the problem, said England, is the fact that funding for travel and support from the Polar Continental Shelf Program (PCSP) isn't tied to research funding from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). "The PCSP allocates its logistical resources separately from, and often in contradiction to, the resource needs of peer-reviewed NSERC grants. This lack of co-ordination threatens long-established monitoring programmes," said England. The Polar Continental Shelf Program also oversees safety for researchers in remote camps. "If a severe storm destroys tents, or a camp is threatened by a polar bear, the PCSP comes to the rescue," said England. Lack of co-ordination a problem Steven Bigras, executive director of the Canadian Polar Commission, agrees that the lack of co-ordination is a problem. "[England] says there's a bit of a disconnect there between NSERC funding the research and then you have to follow up with Continental Shelf to ensure you have the logistical support to get to the field stations. If one says 'yes' and the other one says 'no,' it really doesn't help the overall effort," said Bigras. As well, England said budget cuts and increasing fuels costs "have rapidly eroded the PCSP's ability to fulfil its mission." England praises Canada for funding Arctic research in the amount of $156 million during the International Polar Year from 2007 to 2009, but said that the future of research after that funding runs out "does not look as bright." "We've had two wonderful years of well-funded research in the Arctic," said Bigras. "This sudden splurge of research going on, and all these young people getting interested in the research." England wrote that the increasing costs have put Arctic research out of the reach of many Canadian researchers, "many of whom now talk openly about shifting their research attentions to something that can be studied farther south." England said that part of the solution lies in creating a national polar policy, " which would commit Canada to clear objectives and better co-ordinate research activities." "If you have a policy, you have priorities and you fund those priorities," said Bigras. "[Currently], we have a set of projects out there and they're all priorities during the International Polar Year, but what happens to them after that?" CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Canadian Polar Commission needs new mandate, Arctic expert warns Houses, Arctic research facility among budget goodies for North Arctic research station belongs in Northwest Passage: polar commission Northern exposure: Arctic research means long trips, big rewards Science on an icebreaker Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca