https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/bird-like-dinosaur-was-venomous-scientists-1.812271
Bird-like dinosaur was venomous: scientists | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Bird-like dinosaur was venomous: scientists Social Sharing Technology & Science Bird-like dinosaur was venomous: scientists American and Chinese paleontologists have found that a bird-like dinosaur probably used venom to hunt its prey, the first time venom has been found in the ancestors of birds. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Dec 21, 2009 3:34 PM ET | Last Updated: December 21, 2009 American and Chinese paleontologists have found that a bird-like dinosaur probably used venom to hunt its prey, the first time venom has been found in the ancestors of birds. This fossil of sinornithosaurus shows the raptor's long, grooved fangs. It was found with a wide array of other animals, including other dinosaurs and early birds. ((David Burnham/University of Kansas Biodiversity Institute)) The researchers found depressions and grooves on the sides of the skull of sinornithosaurus, a small, feathered dinosaur that lived 129 million years ago in what is now northeastern China. The structures are similar to those seen on the skulls of some venomous reptiles, such as the beaded lizard and "rear-fanged" snakes. "This thing is a venomous bird, for all intents and purposes," said Larry Martin of the University of Kansas Natural History Museum and Biodiversity Institute. In a study published in this week's issue of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, the researchers say sinornithosaurus was about the size of a turkey and almost certainly had feathers, being a close relative of microraptor, a dinosaur whose fossils include impressions of feathers and wings. The scientists think the depressions on the sides of the skull correspond to poison glands and the venom was delivered along a long groove to the upper teeth. The structures are consistent with a primitive system to deliver venom, one that seeps the poison into a bite wound rather than injecting it at high pressure. A drawing of a reconstructed sinornithosaurus skull shows the structures researchers believe housed a primitive venom delivery system. ((National Academy of Sciences)) Like the beaded lizard's venom, sinornithosaurus's poison probably wasn't lethal, but sent its prey into shock, making it harder for it to escape or retaliate against the predator. "You wouldn't have seen it coming," David Burnham of the University of Kansas said. "It would have swooped down behind you from a low-hanging tree branch and attacked from the back. It wanted to get its jaws around you. Once the teeth were embedded in your skin, the venom could seep into the wound. The prey would rapidly go into shock, but it would still be living, and it might have seen itself being slowly devoured by this raptor." The researchers say the dinosaur's long rear fangs suggest that it could penetrate the thick layer of feathers of its preferred prey: birds and bird-like dinosaurs. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca