https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/india-plans-to-blast-astronaut-into-space-1.580898
India plans to blast astronaut into space | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news India plans to blast astronaut into space Social Sharing Technology & Science India plans to blast astronaut into space India's space agency approved plans on Tuesday for its first manned mission into space, which, if successful, would make India only the fourth nation to launch an astronaut into space aboard its own rocket. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Nov 08, 2006 7:30 AM ET | Last Updated: November 7, 2006 India's space agency approved plans onTuesday for its first manned mission into space, which, if successful, would make India only the fourth nation to launch an astronaut intoorbit aboard its own rocket. The state-run Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) said it aims to put an astronaut outside the Earth's atmosphere by 2014. The announcement came after 80 top Indian scientists met Tuesday in the country'stechnology centre of Bangalore to discuss studies carried out in the last four years examining India's capability tohandle the technological challenges of such a mission. "The gathering of scientists attending the meeting today was highly appreciative of the study conducted by ISRO and unanimous in suggesting that the time is appropriate for India to undertake a manned mission," the ISRO said in a statement. The agency said it is already working on the launch of its first unmanned mission to orbit the moon in 2008. A new space race The Indian space agency said it will submit the proposal for a manned mission to the federal government for approval and funding. The mission is expected to cost $2.2 billion US. In just a few short years, India has emerged as a technological powerhouse in Asia and a rival to its northern neighbourChina, which became the third nation, alongside the United States and the former Soviet Union, to launch a human into orbit in October 2003with the successful launch of its Shenzhou 5 spacecraft. Efforts by countriesto launch manned space missions have been overshadowed in recent years by space tourism on NASA and Russian launchers and private enterprises such as SpaceShipOne, the first privately funded human spaceflight on June 21, 2004. In 1984, Rakesh Sharma became the first Indian to go into space while riding in a Soviet spacecraft. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca