https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/number-of-high-arctic-animals-declining-1.869806
Number of High Arctic animals declining | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Number of High Arctic animals declining Social Sharing Technology & Science Number of High Arctic animals declining Animals in the Arctic have increased in number over the last 40 years, but populations closest to the North Pole are shrinking, a new international study says. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Mar 18, 2010 9:40 AM ET | Last Updated: March 18, 2010 Animals in the Arctic have increased in number over the last 40 years, but populations closest to the North Pole are shrinking, a new international study says. The report, commissioned by the Circumpolar Biodiversity Monitoring Program (CBMP) and funded by the government of Canada, found that overall, the number of mammals, birds and fish in the Arctic has increased by 16 per cent since 1970. The Arctic Species Trend Index, released Wednesday at a conference in Miami, credited hunting restrictions in place for decades with the animals' recovery. The number of geese, for example, has doubled, and certain species of whale are also recovering. The biggest recovery was in the southernmost parts of the Arctic, where the number of animals was up 46 per cent from 1970 to 2004. In sharp contrast, though, is the High Arctic, the area closest to the North Pole. The number of animals dropped by 25 per cent in the same time period, while the number of caribou was down by about one-third. "What we're seeing is that there's winners and losers with rapid changes in the Arctic," said Mike Gill, a Canadian government researcher and study co-author. Gill is also chair of the CBMP. Louise McRad of the Zoological Society of London said the decrease near the North Pole is most worrisome because the effects of climate change are most dramatic in that area and are expected to worsen. The pressure brought by the loss of sea ice will only increase, she said. Gill said there isn't enough evidence to blame climate change directly for the loss of animals, but it is "largely in line with what would be predicted with climate change." The report found the areas associated with the biggest drop in the number of animals also saw a faster-than-expected loss of sea ice, and species such as polar bears and narwhals are dependent on sea ice to survive. The study tracked 965 populations of 306 species, representing 35 per cent of all known vertebrate species found in the Arctic. The animals with the biggest recovery include bowhead whales, white-tailed eagles and the Atlantic Puffin. The biggest drops were seen in Atlantic cod, lemmings and the brown bear. Polar bears in the western Hudson Bay also experienced a large drop in numbers. The report said there wasn't sufficient data to make any conclusions on polar bear numbers elsewhere. With files from the Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca