https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/sea-ice-loss-key-to-arctic-warming-study-1.904005
Sea ice loss key to Arctic warming: study | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Sea ice loss key to Arctic warming: study Social Sharing Technology & Science Sea ice loss key to Arctic warming: study The loss of sea ice in the Arctic is the main reason temperatures are rising much faster there than elsewhere, a new study suggests. Social Sharing Posted: Apr 30, 2010 7:59 AM ET | Last Updated: April 30, 2010 The loss of sea ice in the Arctic is the main reason temperatures are rising much faster there than elsewhere, a new study suggests. James Screen and Ian Simmonds from the University of Melbourne reported their findings this week in the journal Nature. "The warming in the Arctic over the last couple of decades has been proceeding much faster than the global average," said Screen, a postdoctoral fellow studying polar climate. "It's, roughly speaking, twice as fast," he said. He said the cause of this Arctic temperature "amplification" has been the subject of debate among scientists. Some experts have argued that changes in cloud cover, which can trap heat as well as block the sun, explains the anomaly. Others say changes in atmospheric and oceanic circulation, which can bring more heat to the poles, are behind it. But Screen said he and Simmonds have confirmed a third theory, that the decline in sea ice is the main factor driving the temperature amplification. Central to Screen and Simmonds's conclusions is their analysis of data that shows warming in the Arctic is concentrated near the surface of the Earth. Since this is close to where the changes in ice are happening, it supports the idea that sea ice decline is a key driver, said Screen. If the warming was due to changes in circulation, he said, one would expect it to extend to a greater depth through the atmosphere. Unlike Antarctica, which is dominated by thick ice sheets covering land, the Arctic is dominated by a relatively thin layer of ice floating on water. Sea ice reflects energy from the sun and helps keep the Earth cool. But Screen and Simmonds found Arctic warming between 1989 and 2008 correlated strongly with about a 16 per cent loss of sea ice over the same period. "The amount of the ocean that's being covered by ice is decreasing, so you're getting more open water," said Screen. "Coupled with that, there's been a thinning of the ice," he said. Understanding feedback important Screen said the decrease in ice means less reflection of heat, called the albedo effect, and more evaporation from oceans, causing an accumulation of water vapour in the atmosphere, which itself is a greenhouse gas. Screen said understanding this climate feedback is important in terms of developing more accurate climate change models. He says current Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change models do include this feedback process, but have underestimated the observed loss of Arctic sea ice to date. Screen and Simmonds restricted their study to recent decades when the most marked decrease in ice had occurred. Screen said the shortage of meteorological stations in the Arctic means he and Simmonds relied heavily on data from satellites, which have only been around for20 to 30 years. "We're analysing a new data set which is probably the highest quality data set that we have for the Arctic," said Screen. The new findings conflict with an earlier study, also in Nature that found warming higher up in the atmosphere, weighing against the role of sea ice. But Screen said the authors of that study used an earlier data set and did not interpret it correctly. Still, he acknowledges debate will continue about what exactly is the main driver of temperature amplification in the Arctic and stresses he is not ruling out the contribution of other factors. "It's where you place the emphasis," he said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Arctic warming effects spread: study Arctic ice melting faster than feared: study Arctic warming will cost world billions: Pew study Canada's Arctic researchers call for polar policy Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca