https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/scientists-revive-tardigrades-frozen-for-more-than-30-years-1.3453522
Scientists revive tardigrades frozen for more than 30 years | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Scientists revive tardigrades frozen for more than 30 years Social Sharing Technology & Science·Q&A Scientists revive tardigrades frozen for more than 30 years New research from Japan finds tiny creatures called tardigrades — also known as water bears — can be revived after being frozen solid for decades on end, CBC science columnist Torah Kachur explains. Social Sharing After being thawed from Antarctic ice, some even manage to reproduce Torah Kachur · CBC News · Posted: Feb 18, 2016 3:24 PM ET | Last Updated: February 18, 2016 A figure of a tardigrade, or water bear, from a scientific paper by the National Institute for Polar Research. The researchers thawed a water bear which survived being frozen for more than 30 years. (National Institute for Polar Research/ScienceDirect.com) comments It's already been established that they can survive deep in the ocean and in outer space. And according to new research from Japan, tardigrades — also known as water bears — can even survive being frozen solid for decades on end. CBC Radio science columnist Torah Kachur explains what this means for the so-called "toughest creature on the planet." What makes 'water bears' so remarkable? Water bears, tardigrades, moss piglets — whatever you call them, these tiny microanimals (usually small enough to fit on the head of a pin) can live pretty much everywhere. Their favourite spot is on moss, which they feed on. I found one swimming in a sample of pond water that I was exploring in a microscope and I have to say, they're almost cute, with thick bodies, eight tiny legs, and a sucker-style mouth. Microscopic tardigrades, or water bears, can survive in extreme conditions, including heat, cold, and the vacuum of space. (Wikimedia Commons) You've also probably eaten them. They like to live on lettuce or spinach, and without rigorous scrubbing, you've likely had a water bear for lunch. But what makes them truly amazing is their survivability. They've been experimented on in space, and found in a huge range of environments on Earth, from tropical rainforests to Antarctica to the deep sea. They can survive extreme heat, extreme cold, and extreme pressure. What does this latest research tell us about their ability to survive? It's been previously established that tardigrades can survive being frozen — but now we know they can survive being frozen for an incredibly long time. Japanese researchers successfully thawed some water bears from moss frozen in Antarctica in 1983 — which means they survived being frozen for more than 30 years. How do you reanimate something frozen in ice for 30 years? Slowly. The researchers thawed a moss sample that had been gathered in Antarctica in 1983, and stored at a temperature of -20 C. The sample was thawed at 3 C for 24 hours, and then placed in a Petri dish with fresh water. Two adult water bears survived the thawing — although it took about nine days until they were fully functional. So did several eggs which were successfully hatched. Remarkably, one of the adults and one of the water bears hatched from a frozen egg were able to reproduce successfully, which means there was no significant damage to its DNA in that long freezing period, which would have made it infertile. What are the broader applications for scientists? Hopefully a lot. The resistance of tardigrades to all sorts of environmental extremes means they have some biological secrets, and their DNA must be particularly resistant to damage. One of the main things that happens when we age — or when we get cancer, for example — is that our DNA gets damaged. That, in turn, affects our cells and organs. We have a capacity to repair damage done to our DNA, but possibly not as effectively as some organisms like the water bear. So they may be able to give us clues as to how we can harness the power of our own genomes to do the same. Giant virus revived from ancient permafrost About the Author Torah Kachur Science Columnist Torah Kachur is the syndicated science columnist for CBC Radio One. Torah received her PhD in molecular genetics from the University of Alberta and now teaches at the University of Alberta and MacEwan University. She's the co-creator of scienceinseconds.com. Science in Seconds CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Giant virus revived from ancient permafrost CBC Kids: Is this the toughest creature on the planet? Tiny animals survive exposure to outer space, scientists say Frogs burn ample fuel while freezing solid External Links Recovery and reproduction of an Antarctic tardigrade frozen for more than 30 years Tardigrades In Space blog Survival of Tardigrades in Extreme Environments Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca