https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/environment-minister-climate-change-trump-1.3853125
Environment minister says global movement to combat climate change 'an irresistible force' | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Environment minister says global movement to combat climate change 'an irresistible force' Social Sharing Technology & Science Environment minister says global movement to combat climate change 'an irresistible force' The momentum behind the movement for global reductions in greenhouse gas emissions is "irresistible" despite the recent election of Donald Trump, Canada's environment minister said Tuesday. Social Sharing Despite Donald Trump's win, the movement to reduce emissions has reached a 'point of no return' McKenna says The Canadian Press · Posted: Nov 16, 2016 10:26 AM ET | Last Updated: November 16, 2016 Moroccan Foreign Minister and COP22 President Salaheddine Mezouar (left) and French Minister for Environment Segolene Royal launch the opening of the UN Climate Change Conference 2016 (COP22) in Marrakech, Morocco, November 7, 2016. (Youssef Boudlal/Reuters) The momentum behind the movement for global reductions in greenhouse gas emissions is "irresistible" despite the recent election of Donald Trump, Canada's environment minister, said Tuesday. Speaking at the UN climate change conference in Morocco, Catherine McKenna tried to minimize the effects of the U.S. election result on the international fight against global warming. "In terms of climate change ... there's an irresistible force now," McKenna told a news conference in Marrakech. "There's no going back. You can't stop the waves from hitting the beach. And what you're seeing is, it's because the market forces recognize the huge opportunity." Donald Trump gives carbon price foes a new line of attack How a 2 C temperature increase could change the planet Donald Trump's victory last week dampened spirits going into the Morocco conference as the president-elect has come out publicly as a skeptic of man-made climate change. 'I think there are a lot of opportunities to continue going forward when it comes to the environment, when it comes to the economic opportunities that are presented.' - Catherine McKenna, Environment Minister Trump also said he wanted to pull the United States out of the Paris Agreement, which is a deal ratified by more than 100 countries to limit the average global temperature increase by a maximum of 2 C by 2050. McKenna said that despite Trump's election win, the movement to reduce emissions has reached a "point of no return." The minister wouldn't say, however, how she would try to persuade the incoming American government to stay inside the Paris agreement. "We have a great relationship with the United States," she said. "That's really important to us and I think it's important to Americans. And we're going to continue there. And I think there are a lot of opportunities to continue going forward when it comes to the environment, when it comes to the economic opportunities that are presented." French President Francois Hollande was firmer than McKenna with regard to Trump. "The U.S. has the largest economy in the world," he said during an afternoon plenary session at the conference. "And it's the second-largest emitter of greenhouse gases. It must respect the promises it made. It's not just their duty, but it's in the interest of the American people, who are also being hit by the changing climate. No one is safe." Trump win the 'most miserable U.S. election result' for fighting climate change, scientists say How to talk climate change with Evangelical Christians CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories 2016 on track to beat heat record despite slowdown in CO2 emissions Trump choosing leaders to roll back environmental, energy policies Young scientists pen letter to Trudeau urging environmental assessment overhaul Ban Ki-moon, Hollande call on U.S. to respect Paris climate deal Audio Northern Ontario plants, animals try to adapt to warm November weather Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca