https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/dinosaurs-had-slow-rise-to-prominence-study-finds-1.652946
Dinosaurs had slow rise to prominence, study finds | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Dinosaurs had slow rise to prominence, study finds Social Sharing Technology & Science Dinosaurs had slow rise to prominence, study finds Dinosaurs may have once ruled the Earth, but their rise was a more gradual process than previously thought, according to a new study based on evidence from a rich fossil find in the United States. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 20, 2007 12:11 PM ET | Last Updated: July 20, 2007 Dinosaurs may have once ruled the Earth, but their rise was a more gradual process than previously thought, according to a new study based on evidence from a rich fossil find in the United States. A team of paleontologists led by two graduate students from the University of California, Berkeley, has discovered that dinosaurs co-existed with species that were their ancestors for 15 to 20 million years. Their findings, published in the Friday issue of the journal Science, run contrary to the belief that the dinosaurs rose to prominence by quickly replacing their rivals. "Finding dinosaur precursors, or basal dinosauromorphs, together with dinosaurs tells us something about the pace of changeover. If there was any competition between the precursors and dinosaurs, then it was a very prolonged competition," said Randall Irmis, a graduate student at the University of California, Berkeley, and co-author of the report,in a statement. Dinosaurs rose to prominence in the Late Triassic between 235 million and 200 million years ago and came to dominate the Earth in the Jurassic, between 200 million and 120 million years ago. But pinpointing how they rose to power has been difficult because of the paucity of fossil specimens from the Late Triassic, both of dinosaurs and particularly of their ancestors. Up until 2003, when a team in Poland uncovered a creature named Silesaurus, no dinosaur predecessor had been discovered from the Late Triassic, the authors said. But the team reported finding 1,300 fossil specimens, including several complete bones, from the Hayden Quarry at Ghost Ranch, near the northern New Mexico town of Abiquiu. At the quarry, Irmis and fellow graduate student Sterling Nesbitt found evidence of both early dinosaurs and dinosaur precursors, as well as bones of crocodile ancestors, fish and amphibians, all dating between 220 and 210 million years ago. The dinosaurs and their ancestors uncovered at the quarry were quite small in comparison to the dinosaurs from the later Jurassic and Cretaceous periods such as the lumbering and long-necked sauropods or the ferocious therapods like Tyrannosaurus rex. One dinosaur ancestor found at the quarry, the Dromomeron romeri, measured only three to five feet long and was possibly bipedal. Another unnamed specimen, about three times the size of Dromomeron, walked on four legs and ate plants with a beaked snout. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Protein study reveals T. rex was a little bit chicken Feathered dinosaur finding won't fly, say scientists External Links Science: A Late Triassic Dinosauromorph Assemblage from New Mexico and the Rise of Dinosaurs Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca