https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/climate-change-weather-noaa-report-1.3307572
Climate change played role in 2014's extreme weather, report says | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Climate change played role in 2014's extreme weather, report says Social Sharing Technology & Science Climate change played role in 2014's extreme weather, report says Human-caused climate change contributed to many extreme weather and climate events in 2014, according to a report by the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Social Sharing U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says report's findings can help people adapt CBC News · Posted: Nov 06, 2015 12:22 PM ET | Last Updated: November 6, 2015 Firefighters battle flames from the King fire near Fresh Pond, Calif., in September 2014. New scientific analysis shows man-made climate change played a role in 14 extreme weather events in 2014, hitting every continent but Antarctica. (Rich Pedroncelli/Associated Press) comments Human-caused climate change contributed to many extreme weather and climate events in 2014, according to a report by the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The fourth annual report, titled Explaining Extreme Events of 2014 from a Climate Perspective and published by the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society, looked at individual extreme weather events such as wildfires, winter storms and floods. This year, 32 groups of scientists investigated 28 individual extreme events in 2014, attempting to determine whether human-induced climate change played a factor in their severity, or if they fell under the range of "natural variability." Floods in Prairies The report found human-induced climate change was responsible for some of the events on every continent except Antarctica. In North America, it found climate change influenced events such as wildfires in California, and tropical cyclones in Hawaii. Other events like the extreme winter in 2013-14 were found to be largely caused by natural variability. The report specifically mentioned climate change and land use both playing a role in floods across the Canadian Prairies in 2014. A hydrology report in 2014 similarly attributed the floods, in part, to farmers draining wetlands. A new report says human-induced climate change and land use played a part in much of the flooding across Canada's Prairie provinces in 2014. 'Ground-breaking science' The report stresses that while researchers did not find evidence of climate change affecting several of these events, that doesn't necessarily rule it out. In such cases, "this means that if there is a human contribution, it cannot be distinguished from natural climate variability," reads the report. "Understanding our influence on specific extreme weather events is groundbreaking science that will help us adapt to climate change," said Stephanie C. Herring, the report's lead editor. "As the field of climate attribution science grows, resource managers, the insurance industry, and many others can use the information more effectively for improved decision-making and to help communities better prepare for future extreme events." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Coastal erosion study of P.E.I. shows surprising results New environment minister to face uphill battle, says finance study Video Drained wetlands contribute to Prairie summer floods, says expert Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca