https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/satellites-to-illuminate-mystery-of-northern-lights-1.659259
Satellites to illuminate mystery of northern lights | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Satellites to illuminate mystery of northern lights Social Sharing Technology & Science Satellites to illuminate mystery of northern lights A team of scientists from Canada and the United States will launch an ambitious project in February to unravel the science behind the shimmering aurora borealis seen in northern skies. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jan 12, 2007 6:40 PM ET | Last Updated: January 12, 2007 A team of scientists from Canada and the United States will launch an ambitious project in February to unravel the science behind the shimmering aurora borealis seen in northern skies. The THEMIS project will launch five satellites into orbit on Feb. 15 to monitor the interaction between charged particles expelled by the sun and the Earth's magnetic field. When these particles — collectively referred to as the solar wind — interact with the magnetic field they occasionally release energy near the polar regions in aurora substorms. The electron release interacts with molecules in the atmosphere and appears from the night sky as the spectacular displays of the northern lights. In addition to the five satellites, 20 ground-based observatories, including 16 in Canada, will take digital images and monitor magnetic signatures from these substorms to record the auroras in the night sky. Most of the observatories will be in communities in the North including Whitehorse; Inuvik, N.W.T.; Sanikiluak, N.W.T.; and Gillam, Man. The THEMIS project is a joint effort between NASA and the Canadian Space Agency and includes contributions from scientists from the University of Alberta and University of Calgary. "This is a very exciting moment for us because we are expecting to greatly enhance our understanding of these space disturbances that are both beautiful and powerful," said University of Calgary physics professor Eric Donovan, leader of the Canadian Space Agency-funded component of THEMIS. NASA scientists aren't as interested in the lights themselves as they are in the energy release that causes them. That same release of electrons can also lead to unexpected electrical discharges on spacecraft surfaces, which can damage sensitive electronics. "The worst space storms, the ones that knock-out spacecraft and endanger astronauts, could be just a series of substorms, one after the other," said David Sibeck of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md., project scientist for the THEMIS mission. "Substorms could be the building block of severe space storms." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories PHOTO GALLERY: Mission to the northern lights Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca