http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/feathered-plant-eating-dinosaur-found-1.2717996
Feathered plant-eating dinosaur found | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Feathered plant-eating dinosaur found Social Sharing Technology & Science Feathered plant-eating dinosaur found Fossil feathers have been found on an early plant-eating dinosaur for the first time, raising the possibility that all dinosaurs were downy, not scaly. Social Sharing Study suggests most dinosaurs may have had feathers CBC News · Posted: Jul 25, 2014 11:20 AM ET | Last Updated: July 25, 2014 Kulindadromeus zabaikalicus, seen in this artist's reconstruction, was a turkey-sized plant-eating dinosaur that lived about 160 million years ago. (Drawing by Andrey Atuchin) comments Fossil feathers have been found on an early plant-eating dinosaur for the first time, raising the possibility that all dinosaurs were downy, not scaly. The Kulindadromeus zabaikalicus belonged to a group of plant-eating dinosaurs called ornithiscians, which included the duck-billed hadrosaurs, and armoured stegosaurs and ankylosaurs. Previously, the only dinosaurs known to have feathers were the theropods, a group of meat-eating dinosaurs thought to be the direct ancestors of birds. Tyrannosaurs prowled in packs, B.C. tracks show A closeup shows fossil feathers on the leg of the dinosaur Kulindadromeus. According to the researchers, they 'resemble the down feathers of some modern chicken breeds.' (Pascal Godefroit/Royal Belgian Institute of Natural History) According to Pascal Godefroit, lead author of a study describing the newly discovered dinosaur, ornisthischian dinosaurs had previously been found with simple bristles or quills, but scientists weren't sure if those were really feathers. "Our new find clinches it: All dinosaurs had feathers, or at least the potential to sprout feathers," said Godefroit, a paleontologist at the Royal Belgian Institue of Natural History, in a news release. Fossil is biggest 4-winged dinosaur ever found In the study published this week in the journal Science, Godefroit and his colleagues in Russia, France, Ireland and the U.K. reported that Kulindadromeus was found in Eastern Siberia and lived about 160 million years ago It was about 1.5 metres long, and its proportions suggest it was about the size of turkey. It had scales on its tail and shins and short bristles on its head and back. Similar to chicken down But its most exciting parts of its attire were the feathers on its arms and legs. Each was up to 1.5 centimetres long and made of up of six or seven filaments joined together. They "resemble the down feathers of some modern chicken breeds, such as the Silkie," the researchers wrote. Summary of the article in Science Kulindadromeus fossils were found in a bonebed in southeastern Siberia. (Th. Hubin/RBINS) They added that the discovery bolsters the evidence that the bristles and quills found in other ornisthicians really were early feathers, and they likely arose for insulation and communication. "In any case, it indicates that those protofeather-like structures were probably widespread in Dinosauria, possibly even in the earliest members of the clade," they said. In a news release, they added that smaller dinosaurs were probably covered in feathers that "may have been lost as dinosaurs grew up" and no longer needed the extra insulation. Dinosaur feathers found in Alberta amber Not all paleontologists are convinced that the structures found on Kulindadromeus's body were feathers. Paul Barrett at the Natural History Museum in London told BBC News that they looked like "little streamers coming from a central plate." Barrett appeared to disagree with the study authors' opinion that the structures looked like Silkie chicken down feathers. He added, "No bird has that structure in any part of its plumage and none of the developmental models that biologists use to understand the evolution of feathers includes a stage that has anything like that kind of anatomy." According to Maria McNamara, a University College Cork researcher who worked on the new study, feathers and hair are rarely preserved in fossils because they tend to be removed from the body by scavengers after an animal dies. In this case, a rare stroke of luck meant the body was washed away by a river before this could happen, and promptly buried in mud with very little oxygen, preserving the feathers. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Fossil is biggest 4-winged dinosaur ever found Dinosaurs weren't warm-blooded, study suggests 'Chicken from hell' dinosaur gets scientific name 'Elegant' dinosaurs may have shaken their tail feathers Dinosaur feathers likely for sex, not flying Huge, feathered tyrannosaur surprises researchers Dinosaur feathers found in Alberta amber External Links Full paper in Science News release from Royal Belgian Institute of Natural History News release from University College Cork Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca