https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/danielle-dufault-fossil-artist-1.4007095
Sketching science: Meet the fossil artist who reconstructs 'lost worlds' | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Sketching science: Meet the fossil artist who reconstructs 'lost worlds' Social Sharing Technology & Science Sketching science: Meet the fossil artist who reconstructs 'lost worlds' Toronto illustrator Danielle Dufault is one of only a handful of people around the world called on to create artistic renderings of the mysterious creatures that roamed the Earth millions of years ago. Social Sharing Danielle Dufault creates artistic renderings of creatures that roamed the Earth millions of years ago Sherry Noik · CBC News · Posted: Mar 05, 2017 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: March 5, 2017 Danielle Dufault of Toronto's Royal Ontario Museum creates artistic renderings of the mysterious creatures that roamed the Earth millions of years ago. (Jean-Bernard Caron/Royal Ontario Museum) Who says art and science don't mix? Not Danielle Dufault, a Toronto illustrator who is one of only a handful of people around the world called on to create artistic renderings of the mysterious creatures that roamed the Earth millions of years ago. "I really take a lot of pleasure in trying to reconstruct these lost worlds," Dufault told CBC News. "And there's a lot of imagination that can be applied to that." I really take a lot of pleasure in trying to reconstruct these lost worlds. - Danielle Dufault While some of the other little girls were playing Barbie, Dufault was digging up worms in the backyard and sketching skeletons of dinosaurs at the museum. Later, she found an educational path that married her two passions: the Technical and Scientific Illustration degree program at Sheridan College. Now the 28-year-old Dufault is the in-house paleontological illustrator at the Royal Ontario Museum, where she has worked since completing an internship there in 2011. When it comes to illustrating the fossil record, Dufault is a rock star. Some of her greatest hits: Hallucigenia; the hyolith Haplophrentis and the party worm, officially known as Ovatiovermis cribratus. Using photos of a fossil, paleontological illustrator Danielle Dufault came up with this drawing of Hallucigenia, a prehistoric worm-like sea creature that lived 500 million years ago. (Illustration by Danielle Dufault, photo by Jean-Bernard Caron, Royal Ontario Museum) Dufault's illustration of the party worm, and a photo of the fossil. (Illustration by Danielle Dufault, photo by Jean-Bernard Caron, Royal Ontario Museum) Dufault considers herself "crazy lucky" to be living and working in Canada, home to the Burgess Shale — one of the most important and prolific fossil sites in the world. The UNESCO world heritage site in the Canadian Rockies has yielded tens of thousands of fossil specimens, representing an astounding number and variety of Cambrian-period organisms — many of which have no obvious modern-day relatives. That's the challenge for Dufault. "Things from the Burgess Shale often don't have anything that exists today that you can compare to — which is kind of creepy," she says. Animals preserved 'in the finest details' Dufault applies her technical drawing skill to her knowledge of comparative anatomy, animal habitats and the behaviour of similar organisms to piece together a concept. She stays up to date with current research. But the real fleshing out comes from collaborating with the paleontologists at the ROM and at the University of Toronto who dig up the fossils, study them, sometimes for years, and come up with as detailed a description as they can provide to the artist. "When I have that and a good notion of all the major details, I'm going to start working with Danielle," says Cédric Aria, a U of T PhD graduate and teaching assistant. Aria, 29, is part of a ROM expedition team that makes regular treks to the Burgess Shale to collect fossil specimens. "The first goal is for her to make a first draft," he says. She'll probe for details, and he'll delve deep to answer her questions in a process that can take months. "[We go] back and forth until we're satisfied, and in certain cases it can really change the final conception through that process." Different views of the hyolith Haplophrentis as conceived in an early draft by Dufault. (Artist: Danielle Dufault. © Royal Ontario Museum ) The final illustration of Haplophrentis shows it extending the tentacles of its feeding organ (lophophore) from between its shells. The paired spines, or 'helens,' are rotated downward to prop the animal up off the ocean floor. (Artist: Danielle Dufault. © Royal Ontario Museum) A special feature of the Burgess Shale is that it's a rich repository of sea creatures — invertebrates — which left behind near-perfect imprints of themselves preserved in fossil deposits formed around 500 million years ago. "We really have the opportunity to have complete animals preserved in the finest details," Aria says. "To some extent, that makes it easier than other types of fossil preservation. But when you have more details, you also have to be careful how you interpret those details." Dufault sums up the collaboration this way: "'Look at this squished bug on a rock, let me know what you see, give me your interpretation.' Sometimes you don't know what you're looking at, and you really have to crack the minds of the scientists." 'Fascination' with prehistoric life For Dufault's specialized work, it helps to be a big fan of sci-fi. "That probably plays into some of the fascination I have about prehistoric life," she says. An interest that serves her well in conceiving of ancient, otherworldly critters that sometimes resemble aliens naturally sparks inquiry. It has horns, but in which direction do they curve? Is the shell smooth or scaly? Are those spikes on its back or protruding from its sides? But this is science fact, not fiction, so she can't let her imagination run too wild. "You're trying to represent the facts and show an accurate representation, but there's some questions about how these things looked that we can't have a real answer for — that's where the real creativity comes in." For instance, purple may seem like a whimsical colour for the underside and speckled tentacles of Ovatiovermis cribratus (the party worm). But, Dufault explains, it's based on a colour that exists in similar contemporaneous organisms that live (or lived) in similar ecological environments and might "use" colour in a similar way — like for self-defence. "Sometimes the imagination and skill of the artist becomes very important because there's going to be pieces that we're not sure about," Aria says. "She will have to complete whatever part is missing with her own imagination." Quarry site at Marble Canyon in Kootenay National Park on a Royal Ontario Museum field expedition in 2016. (Joseph Moysiuk) New species of gigantic, toothy worm identified in Canadian fossil collection New prehistoric bird species identified in Canadian Arctic Tiny, bag-like fossil creature could be early human ancestor Oldest traces of life on Earth found in Quebec, dating back roughly 3.8 billion years CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Oldest traces of life on Earth found in Quebec, dating back roughly 3.8 billion years New species of gigantic, toothy worm identified in Canadian fossil collection New prehistoric bird species identified in Canadian Arctic Tiny, bag-like fossil creature could be early human ancestor Hallucigenia was a spiky worm with neck tentacles, ring of teeth Cone-shaped sea creatures finally get place on evolutionary tree Video New 'party worm' species identified from Rocky Mountain fossil find Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca