https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/atomic-scientists-announce-doomsday-clock-1.3952963
Atomic scientists move Doomsday Clock ahead to 2½ minutes to midnight | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Atomic scientists move Doomsday Clock ahead to 2½ minutes to midnight Social Sharing Technology & Science Atomic scientists move Doomsday Clock ahead to 2½ minutes to midnight The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists takes the unprecedented step of moving the Doomsday Clock ahead 30 seconds to 2½ minutes to midnight. Social Sharing Last time it was moved forward was 2015, advancing to 3 minutes to midnight from 5 minutes CBC News · Posted: Jan 26, 2017 9:50 AM ET | Last Updated: January 26, 2017 Lawrence Krauss, theoretical physicist, chair of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists Board of Sponsors, left, and Thomas Pickering, co-chair of the International Crisis Group, display the Doomsday Clock during a news conference the at the National Press Club in Washington, Thursday, Jan. 26, 2017, announcing that the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientist have moved the minute hand of the Doomsday Clock to two and a half minutes to midnight. (Carolyn Kaster/Associated Press) The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists has moved the Doomsday Clock ahead 30 seconds, taking the world to 2½ minutes to midnight. This clock was first used in 1947 as a measure of how close humanity is to destroying our civilization. It typically moves by the minute. This is the first time it has moved by 30 seconds. Clock ticks closer to midnight, as the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists sees an increase in dangers to humanity, from climate disruption to nuclear war 2:51 The scientists said Thursday that several factors weighed heavily in their decision, particularly climate change denial by people in power — they cited U.S. President Donald Trump — and talk about more nuclear weapons. "This is the first time the words and stated policy of one or two people placed in high positions has had such an impact to our perception of existential threat," said scientist Lawrence Krauss. The scientists named both Donald Trump and Russian leader Vladimir Putin as their chief concerns, but also pointed to leaders of Pakistan and North Korea. Trump has denied that climate change is occurring and has also called for the U.S. to increase nuclear arms. The United States must greatly strengthen and expand its nuclear capability until such time as the world comes to its senses regarding nukes &mdash;@realDonaldTrump "Make no mistake, this has been a difficult year," said Rachel Bronson, executive director and publisher of the Bulletin said at the press conference. "The clock statement … makes clear, that over the the course of 2016, the global security landscape darkened, as the international community failed to come to grips with humanity's most pressing existential threat: nuclear weapons and climate change." 'Let it be an arms race,' Trump says of nuclear weapons In particular, Bronson noted that there has been "cavalier and reckless language used across the globe, especially in the United States ... around nuclear weapons and nuclear threats." She also said that there has been a "growing disregard" for scientific expertise that is needed for dealing with climate change effects. A history of some of the changes to the Doomsday Clock. (CBC News) "Climate change should not be a partisan issue," said David Titley, professor of practice in meteorology and a professor of international affairs at the Pennsylvania State University. "The planet will continue to warm to ultimately dangerous levels so long as carbon dioxide continues to be pumped into the atmosphere, irrespective of political leadership." Titley called on the Trump administration to accept climate change as a reality. "No problem can be solved unless its existence is first recognized," he said. "There are no alternative facts here." In 2015, the clock moved to three minutes to midnight, ahead from five minutes set in 2012. The clock remained at three minutes to midnight in 2016. In 1953, as a result of the first detonation of a thermonuclear bomb by the U.S. and the test of a hydrogen bomb by the Soviet Union, the clock moved to two minutes to midnight, the closest it has ever been. Since its inception, the clock has moved ahead only 19 times. Other concerns the scientists noted were technological, such as biotechnology and advancements in artificial intelligence. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories CBC IN IRAN If Trump nixes nuclear deal, 'we are prepared,' says country's atomic chief Opinion Let us hope for a Donald Trump disaster Looking for reasons to 'carpe annum' in 2017? Here are 5 events that could end life on Earth Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca