https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/climate-change-editor-note-1.5175490
Why CBC News is doing a series on climate change | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Why CBC News is doing a series on climate change Social Sharing Technology & Science·Editor's Note Why CBC News is doing a series on climate change Climate change is a critical issue for our readers, viewers and listeners, and recent polling suggests it is a leading concern in this election year. We want to make sure we reflect that at CBC News. Social Sharing The environment is shaping up to be major issue in election year Mark Harrison · CBC News · Posted: Jun 17, 2019 4:00 AM ET | Last Updated: June 20, 2019 comments Climate change is real, it's happening right now and it's in our backyard in devastating, even deadly ways. Its fingerprints are all over this spring's floods and wildfires. Yes, natural emergencies are complex, but powerful and growing evidence shows that climate change is making flooding worse, fires like "The Beast" in Fort McMurray in 2016 more destructive and heat waves more life-threatening. Canada's Arctic is also heating up — the permafrost, which is the very foundation for the North's infrastructure, is thawing and Indigenous ways of life are being threatened. Worse, there's evidence these Arctic changes are shifting global weather patterns and accentuating droughts and torrential downpours around the globe. Climate change is a critical issue for our readers, viewers and listeners. Recent polling suggests that it is a leading concern in this election year. We want to make sure we reflect that at CBC News. In Our Backyard is an ambitious and comprehensive CBC News project about how climate change is affecting our lives. You'll see and hear it wherever CBC News is... online, on television, on the radio and on CBC Kids News, because Canada's youth care deeply about this issue. Sign up for CBC's environmental newsletter, What on Earth? The clear scientific consensus is that we're on an irreversible warming trajectory. Canada is on the frontline of global changes that are already altering our communities, our livelihoods and our health. According to the federal government's recent assessment, Canada's Changing Climate Report, there is "high confidence" that: Canada is warming at twice the global rate, and our north is warming at three times that rate. We can expect more extreme heat, warmer winters, earlier springs and rising sea levels. Precipitation will increase in much of the country. Weather extremes will intensify. But irreversible doesn't mean unalterable. The United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) said there is also "high confidence" that risks in the future can be reduced with action. Canadians have told us they're hopeful. Many have been making changes in their own lives, but expect governments and businesses to take action as well. And they want some accountability from their political leaders. CLIMATE CHANGE In our backyard: What climate change in Canada looks like They are also asking the media to do a better job by providing more facts about what is happening and more coverage of possible solutions. The CBC has been doing that since at least 1977. That year, both David Suzuki and Bob McDonald talked about global warming and something called "the greenhouse effect" on their respective CBC Radio programs, Quirks and Quarks and Ideas. Since then, we've done hundreds of stories about climate change. Sometimes, we're so used to hearing about it, it doesn't seem like news anymore. But news on the climate front is happening right now from coast to coast to coast. And we're committed to covering it for you. CLIMATE CHANGE From breakup to 'fake-up': How a changing Yukon River is reshaping an age-old ice bridge Climate Change Canadians are worried about climate change, but many don't want to pay taxes to fight it: Poll CLIMATE CHANGE 'It's a problem for society': Climate change is making some homes uninsurable About the Author Mark Harrison Mark Harrison is executive producer of CBC News Content Units. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Climate Change Canadians are worried about climate change, but many don't want to pay taxes to fight it: Poll CLIMATE CHANGE In our backyard: What climate change in Canada looks like CBC EXPLAINS What is climate change? Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca