https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/amber-fossil-shows-ancient-sexual-reproduction-in-flowers-1.2485351
Amber fossil shows ancient sexual reproduction in flowers | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Amber fossil shows ancient sexual reproduction in flowers Social Sharing Technology & Science Amber fossil shows ancient sexual reproduction in flowers Scientists have discovered a 100-million-year-old chunk of amber that captures what they say is the oldest evidence of sexual reproduction in a flowering plant. Social Sharing Cretaceous Period specimen found in Burma CBC News · Posted: Jan 06, 2014 10:58 AM ET | Last Updated: January 6, 2014 This flower preserved in 100-million-year old amber is one of the most complete ever found. (Courtesy Oregon State University) comments Scientists have discovered a 100-million-year-old chunk of amber that captures what they say is the oldest evidence of sexual reproduction in a flowering plant. The now-extinct but well-preserved flower, named Micropetasos burmensis, gives researchers a peek at some of the biodiversity that began covering the Earth around the Cretaceous Period, which lasted about 79 million years, from about 145 million years ago to 66 million years ago. The scene that's frozen in the fossilized tree resin shows a cluster of 18 tiny flowers, with one of them in the process of making some new seeds during a period when dinosaurs still roamed the planet. Microscopic images reveal pollen tubes growing out of two grains of pollen and penetrating the flower's stigma. The process of the male pollen tube entering the female reproductive stigma is the same sexual reproductive process used by modern flowering plants, which are known as angiosperms, explained George Poinar Jr., a professor emeritus in the Department of Integrative Biology at Oregon State University, in a press release. "In Cretaceous flowers we've never before seen a fossil that shows the pollen tube actually entering the stigma," Poinar said in the press release. "This is the beauty of amber fossils. They are preserved so rapidly after entering the resin that structures such as pollen grains and tubes can be detected with a microscope." The newly described fossils were discovered in mines in Burma, also known as Myanmar. The research from Oregon State University and Germany was published in the Journal of the Botanical Institute of Texas. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Dinosaur feathers found in Alberta amber Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca