https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/predatory-dinosaur-was-fearsomely-fast-1.1064092
Predatory dinosaur was fearsomely fast | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Predatory dinosaur was fearsomely fast Social Sharing Technology & Science Predatory dinosaur was fearsomely fast A horned dinosaur as long as an RV may have reached speeds above 55 kilometres an hour as it ran down its prey, estimates an Alberta researcher. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Oct 21, 2011 3:00 PM ET | Last Updated: October 21, 2011 A horned dinosaur as long as an RV may have reached speeds above 55 kilometres an hour as it ran down its prey, estimates an Alberta researcher. "This was a super-fast predator," said W. Scott Persons, the University of Alberta PhD student who uncovered carnotaurus's gifts as a sprinter. "I would not be surprised if carnotaurus could push 30, 35 miles per hour (48-56 km/h), at least in the short burst." Carnotaurus, whose scientific name means "meat-eating bull," was a predatory dinosaur that lived in South America during the Late Cretaceous period, about 71 million years ago. It was less than eight metres long, or about half the size of a Tyrannosaurus rex, and had a horn over each eye. "So, it has a very devilish appearance," said Persons in an interview with CBC Radio's Quirks & Quarks set to air Saturday. His interest in the dinosaur was piqued when he caught a glimpse of its tailbones, which he described as "really, really weird." Unlike most dinosaurs whose tailbones have structures called caudal ribs that stick out to either side, carnotaurus had caudal ribs that tilted upward and hooked over each other, stiffening the tail. Persons hypothesized that the strange, upward-tilted shape of the caudal ribs might allow the dinosaur to fit a much larger muscle underneath compared to most dinosaurs. A muscle found in that tail area in modern crocodiles and lizards, called the caudal femoralis, pulls the leg toward it when it contracts. "If you want to understand how fast a dinosaur can run, you need to look at how big that muscle was because that gives you a sense of how much power it's packing," Persons said. He created a computer model of the dinosaur's tailbone and then sculpted in the caudal femoralis muscle to fit underneath so he could estimate its mass. "I was floored," he said. "It's a really big muscle." He estimates that would have put carnotaurus among the fastest dinosaurs of its size. Persons and his supervisor, Philip Currie, published their results in the journal PLoS One earlier in October. A year ago, the pair published a similar study on tyrannosaurus rex that suggested it, too, was a fast sprinter. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Quirks & Quarks: Download the MP3 or listen to the rest of the show T. rex's tail made it speedy External Links Full paper Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca