https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/scientists-probe-lake-erie-s-dead-zones-1.541984
Scientists probe Lake Erie's dead zones | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Scientists probe Lake Erie's dead zones Social Sharing Technology & Science Scientists probe Lake Erie's dead zones Canadian and U.S. scientists from 15 universities launch 2-year study to predict where low-oxygen zones form in Lake Erie and why. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: May 02, 2005 1:51 PM ET | Last Updated: May 3, 2005 Low oxygen levels could threaten the health of the ecosystem in Lake Erie, say scientists who have launched a two-year study. The study, which begins this month, is one of the largest field research projects of the lake, according to the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Researchers from 15 universities in Canada and the U.S. will use 10 ships to examine the declining health of the Great Lake. They aim to predict both the location and impact of oxygen-starved areas on food web interactions and fish in Lake Erie. Low water levels, fertilizer runoffs and invasive zebra mussels are all thought to be contributing to the oxygen problem. The "dead zones" of low oxygen appear in the lake's central basin during the late summer and early fall, the administration said in a release. Scientists plan to apply what they learn about Lake Erie to solve problems in the other four Great Lakes. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links International Field Years on Lake Erie, NOAA Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca