http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/dinosaur-species-that-evolved-into-birds-survived-by-shrinking-1.2633894
Dinosaur species that evolved into birds survived by shrinking | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Dinosaur species that evolved into birds survived by shrinking Social Sharing Technology & Science Dinosaur species that evolved into birds survived by shrinking The lineage of feathered dinosaurs that gave rise to birds was able to survive while all other dinosaurs went extinct because they shrank over evolutionary time, according to a new study. Social Sharing Feathered dinosaurs evolved rapidly while other species stalled and went extinct, research says Lucas Powers · CBC News · Posted: May 06, 2014 5:04 PM ET | Last Updated: May 7, 2014 Archaeopteryx, the first known bird, was a small dinosaur weighing about .99 kilograms. Small size might have been key to the evolutionary success of the lineage that led to birds. (Roger Benson) comments The lineage of feathered dinosaurs that gave rise to birds was able to survive while all other dinosaurs went extinct because they shrank over evolutionary time, according to a new study published Tuesday. New Alberta dinosaur museum one of top 10 projects in the world 'Chicken from hell' dinosaur gets scientific name An international team of researchers found that the small body sizes of a group of dinosaurs known as maniraptorans was the key to their evolutionary success and also a contributing factor to the diversity of bird species known today. "Dinosaurs aren't extinct; there are about 10,000 species alive today in the form of birds. We wanted to understand the evolutionary links between this exceptional living group, and their Mesozoic relatives, including well-known extinct species like T. rex, Triceratops, and Stegosaurus," says Roger Benson, a professor of earth sciences at Oxford University and a co-author of the study. The Maniraptorans were able to maintain rapid rates of body size evolution. They experimented a lot with different body sizes and ecological niches, which allowed new adaptations to arise very quickly. —David Evans, Royal Ontario Museum paleontologist Maniraptorans had many bird-like features, including feathers, large brains relative to body size compared with other dinosaurs and a highly variable diet, says David Evans, a paleontologist at the Royal Ontario Museum and one of the study's leaders. But it was a series of rapid adaptations and physical modifications leading to smaller species that kept the maniraptorans alive while the other dinosaurs floundered over evolutionary time. Evans and his colleagues from multiple global institutions compiled a data set of body masses for over 400 dinosaur species — more than half of all the dinosaurs that have been named — using the thickness of femur bones to estimate total body mass. 'Evolvability' The variation in body size of dinosaurs is one of the great mysteries of evolutionary biology, Evans says, with the biggest dinosaur in the data weighing 90 tonnes while the smallest was just 15 grams. After analyzing the database, the largest of its kind ever assembled, the team found that after dinosaurs evolved around 220 million years ago, many species underwent a period of quick evolutionary changes that allowed them to take advantage of different ecological niches and establish their dominance in the early Triassic landscape. But after the “initial burst,” Evans says, almost all lineages slowed down. The notable exception was the maniraptorans. “The maniraptorans were able to maintain rapid rates of body size evolution. They experimented a lot with different body sizes and ecological niches, which allowed new adaptations to arise very quickly. They seemed to have a very high level of evolvability,” says Evans. Body mass is so critical to species’ survival because it determines many aspects of an organism’s ecology and lifestyle. Metabolic rate, food consumption, energy use and the amount of physical space a species needs are all dependent on body mass, Evans says. Researchers will now try to determine exactly what characteristics of the maniraptorans facilitated their high evolvability, while other dinosaurs seemed unable to adapt to the changing environment that eventually led to their extinction. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories New Alberta dinosaur museum one of top 10 projects in the world 'Chicken from hell' dinosaur gets scientific name Nunavut dinosaur fossil is most northern ever found New dinosaur, cousin of T. Rex, discovered in Arctic Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca