https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/t-rex-killed-by-parasite-not-combat-scientists-say-1.840122
T. rex killed by parasite, not combat, scientists say | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news T. rex killed by parasite, not combat, scientists say Social Sharing Technology & Science T. rex killed by parasite, not combat, scientists say One of the world's most famous dinosaurs — Sue the T. rex at the Field Museum in Chicago — died of a parasitic infection, not in a fight with another dinosaur, researchers say. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Sep 29, 2009 12:56 PM ET | Last Updated: September 29, 2009 One of the world's most famous dinosaurs — Sue, the T. rex at the Field Museum in Chicago — died of a parasitic infection, not in a fight with another dinosaur, researchers say. The fossilized remains of the tyrannosaurus rex, the star attraction of the Chicago museum, has a series of marks on the jaw that some paleontologists have attributed to a fight with another dinosaur, possibly another T. rex. This reconstruction of the trichomonosis infection in a T. rex shows lesions in the jaw that penetrate to the bone. ((Chris Glen/University of Queensland)) A team of American and Australian researchers now says the lesions on the jawbones of Sue and nine other T. rex specimens are the result of a parasitic infection, called trichomonosis, that infects modern birds. The study, led by Ewan Wolff of the University of Wisconsin-Madison and Steven Salisbury of the University of Queensland, compared the holes on the dinosaurs' skulls to similar scars that appear on the beaks of infected birds. "What drew my attention to trichomonosis as a potential candidate for these mysterious lesions on the jaws of tyrannosaurs is the manifestation of the effects of the disease in [birds of prey]," Wolff said in a statement. "When we started looking at trichomonosis in greater depth, there was a story that matched some lines of evidence for transmission of the disease in tyrannosaurs." In birds, the single-celled parasite Trichomonas gallina can be transmitted from birds such as pigeons to birds of prey, such as falcons and hawks. Pigeons are carriers for the parasite and don't suffer any symptoms, but the birds of prey can get lesions on their beaks. CBC Radio's Quirks and Quarks will have an interview with study lead author Ewan Wolff Oct. 17 at noon. Wolff said the pattern of lesions seen in birds closely matches the holes found on some T. rex skulls. The research appears in the online journal Public Library of Science One. What's more, the holes in the jaws were neat and had smooth edges, while marks from bites, seen on other dinosaur skeletons, are ragged and messy, Wolff said. The parasitic infection in the dinosaur's mouth and throat could have been so severe that it led to its death. "The lesions we observe on Sue suggest a very advanced stage of the disease and may even have been the cause of her demise," Wolff said. "It's ironic to think that an animal as mighty as 'Sue' probably died as a result of a parasitic infection," Salisbury said. "I'll never look at a feral pigeon the same way again." Because there's no evidence of trichomonosis in other dinosaur species, Wolff said the parasite would have been passed from one T. rex to another, most likely through saliva or by cannibalism. "Fighting and specifically head-biting would have been an ideal mechanism for spreading the disease among tyrannosaurs," said Salisbury. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Sue at The Field Museum Sue at The Field Museum Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca