https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/doubt-cast-on-bacterial-find-in-buried-antarctic-lake-1.1359608
Doubt cast on bacterial 'find' in buried Antarctic lake | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Doubt cast on bacterial 'find' in buried Antarctic lake Social Sharing Technology & Science Doubt cast on bacterial 'find' in buried Antarctic lake Russian scientists claim to have found a new type of bacteria in a lake buried under 3.5 kilometres of ice in Antarctica, even though the head of a lab involved in the analysis has cast doubt over the results. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Mar 11, 2013 6:01 PM ET | Last Updated: March 12, 2013 Russian researchers at the Vostok station in Antarctica pose for a picture after reaching subglacial Lake Vostok in February 2012. (Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute Press Service/Associated Press) Two Russian scientists claim to have found a new type of bacteria in a lake buried under 3.5 kilometres of ice in Antarctica, even though the head of a lab involved in the analysis has cast doubt over the results. The Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute, an agency of the ministry of natural resources of the Russian Federation, issued a news release Monday saying that the evidence for a new microbe comes from a more comprehensive analysis of DNA in the samples taken from the surface of Lake Vostok in February 2012. That analysis, conducted in a genetics lab at the St. Petersburg Nuclear Physics Institute, compared the DNA to a database of known bacteria and found only an 86 per cent match with known species, said the release from Sergei Bulat and Valery Lukin. The scientists issued the release roughly a month after U.S. scientists with a competing scientific project announced that they had found live bacteria in clean samples from another Antarctic subglacial ice stream called Whillans, which is buried under 800 metres of ice. The Russian study was originally presented at a scientific conference in Moscow dealing with astrobiology — the study of how we might find life on other planets, which often looks at organisms found in extreme environments on Earth that may resemble extraterrestrial environments. However, following media reports about Bulat's and Lukin's announcement last week, Vladimir Korolyov, head of the genetics lab where the analysis was done, cast doubt on the findings in an interview with the Russian news agency Interfax. Korolyov told Interfax that most of the bacteria found in the samples are thought to be contaminants from the kerosene used in the drilling, from human bodies or from the lab itself. "There was one strain of bacteria which we did not find in the drilling liquid, but the bacteria could in principle use kerosene as an energy source," Korolyov was quoted as saying. That suggested that even the unknown organism might not come from the Lake Vostok, but from the ice or the drill. Korolyov added that pure samples would be collected from the lake next year. "For now, we 'd rather not say something," he said. The news release acknowledged that the sample used in the analysis was lake water mixed with jet fuel and Freon drilling fluid and was "very dirty." However, it said that the researchers worked hard to process and analyze the water. Lyle Whyte, a scientist at McGill University in Montreal who holds a Canada Research Chair in environmental microbiology, said Bulat and Lukin present an interesting result, but further analysis of clean samples would be needed to justify their conclusions. Whyte, who studies microbes in Canada's High Arctic, added that it's not unusual for organisms found in the Arctic and Antarctic to show only 80 to 90 per cent similarity with known microbes. Lake Vostok has been buried beneath kilometres of ice and cut off from the rest of the world for millions of years. Scientists have speculated that it may therefore contain very unique ecosystems. Russian scientists began drilling toward the surface of the lake in 1990 from the Vostok research station and finally broke through 13 months ago. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Russia reaches lake buried deep in Antarctic External Links Google translation of news release Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca