https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/ice-age-human-footprints-discovered-in-australia-1.555834
Ice age human footprints discovered in Australia | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Ice age human footprints discovered in Australia Social Sharing Technology & Science Ice age human footprints discovered in Australia Archeologists say 124 footprints found in a dry lake in southeastern Australia are the largest such collection. Size, pattern of prints suggests men, women and children created the tracks in moist soil. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Dec 22, 2005 1:28 PM ET | Last Updated: December 22, 2005 Scores of human fossil footprints dating back to the ice age 20,000 years ago have been discovered in southeastern Australia. The 124 well-preserved prints are between 19,000 and 23,000 years old, based on optical dating techniques, the researchers said. The prints range in size from 13 centimetres to 30 centimetres and provide clues about the anatomy and behaviour of the men, women and children who left their mark in the moist soil. "We see children running between the tracks of their parents, the children running in meandering circles as their parents travel in direct lines," New South Wales Environment Minister Bob Debus told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. It's a "most extraordinary snapshot of a moment or several moments in the life of aboriginal people living on the edge of a lake in western New South Wales 20,000 years ago." University of Melbourne archaeologist Matthew Cupper and his colleagues describe the prints in Mungo National Park near Willandra Lakes, southwest of Sydney. "The trackways form the largest collection of Pleistocene human footprints in the world," the researchers write in this week's online issue of the Journal of Human Evolution. "This site offers a unique glimpse of humans living in the arid inland of Australia at the height of the last glacial period." Based on the size of the prints and the pace lengths, the researchers say the tracks point to tall individuals. One six-foot tall man appeared to be sprinting at about 20 kilometres per hour. The Pleistocene period occurred around 1.8 million to 10,000 years ago and include the most recent ice age. A woman named Mary Pappin Junior from the Mutthi Mutthi aboriginal group found the first footprints in August 2003, Cupper said. The tracks were left in silty clay that hardened and were then preserved by a layer of clay and sand from dunes. With files from Australian Broadcasting Corporation CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Abstract of footprint dating study, Journal of Human Evolution Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca