https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/cirque-du-soleil-founder-to-become-1st-canadian-space-tourist-1.820446
Cirque du Soleil founder to become 1st Canadian space tourist | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Cirque du Soleil founder to become 1st Canadian space tourist Social Sharing Technology & Science Cirque du Soleil founder to become 1st Canadian space tourist Cirque du Soleil founder Guy Laliberté will be blasting into space on Sept. 30 as the seventh private citizen to travel to the International Space Station. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jun 04, 2009 10:28 AM ET | Last Updated: June 4, 2009 Cirque du Soleil founder Guy Laliberté will be blasting into space on Sept. 30 as the seventh private citizen to travel to the International Space Station. The world-renowned circus said in a statement Thursday morning that Laliberté will soar into orbit aboard a Russian Soyuz spacecraft. He will be accompanied by a Russian cosmonaut and an American astronaut and is scheduled to spend 12 days at the station. The 49-year-old Laliberté, who will be Canada's first space tourist, has long been fascinated by space travel. Speaking during a news conference Thursday from Moscow where he has begun training for his mission, Laliberté said he's been introduced as a fire-eater, entertainer and artist. "But being introduced as a space explorer is a new experience for me and I'm profoundly touched by this," he said. He said the trip is an expression of a childhood dream. 'Planetary alignment' "When man walked on the moon for the first time, I realized the book, The Little Prince could become a reality," he said. Laliberté called his September space trip a case of "planetary alignment." This year marks the 25th anniversary of Cirque du Soleil, the 20th anniversary of the Canadian Space Agency and, in September, Laliberté's 50th birthday. His news conference was shown live at the Canadian Space Agency in Longueuil, near Montreal. The six previous space tourists paid about $35 million when they booked through Space Adventures of Virginia. While Laliberté declined to give an exact cost because of a confidentiality agreement, he says it's "pretty similar" to those that were recently negotiated. The money will go to the Russian space agency. Laliberté said he hopes to use his trip to space to raise awareness about the need for clean water around the world. Laliberté founded the One Drop Foundation two years ago to help make safe water accessible around the world. The Quebec billionaire will be dropping in on Canadian astronaut Bob Thirsk, who has just begun a six-month visit to the station. With files from The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca