https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/doomsday-clock-2020-1.5435940
Doomsday Clock moves ahead to 100 seconds to midnight | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Doomsday Clock moves ahead to 100 seconds to midnight Social Sharing Technology & Science Doomsday Clock moves ahead to 100 seconds to midnight In its annual announcement, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists moved the Doomsday Clock ahead to 100 seconds to midnight. "We now face a true emergency — an absolutely unacceptable state of world affairs that has eliminated any margin for error or further delay," says group's leader. Social Sharing Symbolic clock had been at 2 minutes to midnight since 2018 Nicole Mortillaro · CBC News · Posted: Jan 23, 2020 4:00 AM ET | Last Updated: January 24 The symbolic Doomsday Clock, seen here, had remained at two minutes to midnight since 2018. It was announced Thursday that the hands had moved to 100 seconds to midnight. (Leah Millis/Reuters) comments In its annual announcement, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists moved the Doomsday Clock ahead to 100 seconds to midnight. The clock was introduced in 1947 and is a symbolic representation of how close humanity is to destroying civilization. Typically, the hands are moved forward or back depending on how vulnerable the world is. Midnight represents a catastrophe. While the hands of the clock typically move a minute at a time, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists moved it forward by 30 seconds in 2017 and 2018, stopping at two minutes to midnight. It remained unchanged in 2019. "It is 100 seconds to midnight. We are now expressing how close the world is to catastrophe in seconds — not hours, or even minutes," said Rachel Bronson, president and CEO of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. "It is the closest to Doomsday we have ever been in the history of the Doomsday Clock. We now face a true emergency — an absolutely unacceptable state of world affairs that has eliminated any margin for error or further delay." (Kevin Kirk) In making the announcement, Bronson said the clock needed to be recalibrated — which is why it was moved 20 seconds — due to new concerns not taken into account in the past, including climate change. The farthest the clock's hands have been from midnight was 17 minutes in 1991, at the end of the Cold War. "What we called the new abnormal last year … now has become apparently an enduring reality," said Robert Rosner, chair of the bulletin's science and security board. In reaching their decision — which was made in November — the scientists said they took into account three concerning issues: nuclear weapons, climate change and cyber-based disinformation. "As long as nuclear weapons remain in existence, it is inevitable that they will one day be used, whether by accident, miscalculation or design," said Mary Robinson, former president of Ireland and chair of The Elders, a group of world leaders working to promote human rights and other important world issues. 'We have indeed normalized a very dangerous world,' says Bulletin of The Atomic Scientists. 1:06 Sivan Kartha, a member of the bulletin's science and security board and senior scientist at the Stockholm Environmental Institute, said the state of the world demands an emergency response, citing the record-breaking heat waves and floods in India, recent hurricanes and the wildfires that raged from the Arctic to Australia in 2019. Earth set to warm 3.2 C by 2100 unless efforts to cut emissions are tripled, new UN report finds No one will be untouched by a warming planet, scientists say "If the Earth warms by what we tend to think of just a few degrees … we have no reason to be confident that such a world will remain hospitable to human civilization," said Kartha, who was also the author of the fifth and sixth assessment reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Former California governor Jerry Brown, who is the bulletin's executive chair, gave a fiery speech. He said while he's not a scientist, he recognizes the importance of the symbolic clock and that it's the only way to let the world know the threats to civilization. "We're on the Titanic ready to hit an iceberg," Brown said. "But we have have an incredible opportunity to reverse." Corrections An earlier version of this story incorrectly said the Doomsday Clock was introduced in 1967. In fact, it was introduced in 1947. Jan 23, 2020 8:34 AM ET About the Author Nicole Mortillaro Senior Reporter, Science Nicole has an avid interest in all things science. As an amateur astronomer, Nicole can be found looking up at the night sky appreciating the marvels of our universe. She is the editor of the Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada and the author of several books. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Atomic scientists move Doomsday Clock ahead to 2½ minutes to midnight Scientists move Doomsday Clock ahead to 2 minutes to midnight Doomsday Clock remains at 2 minutes to midnight Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca