https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/the-shuttle-has-landed-1.689973
The shuttle has landed | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news The shuttle has landed Social Sharing Technology & Science The shuttle has landed The space shuttle Atlantis has brought its seven astronauts home safely to Edwards Air Force Base in California. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Jun 22, 2007 7:04 AM ET | Last Updated: June 22, 2007 The space shuttle Atlantis has brought its seven astronauts home safely to Edwards Air Force Base in California. "It's just great to be back on planet Earth," Atlantis commander Rick Sturckow said while standing on the tarmac. "There were a lot of challenges on this mission and they were all dramatic. All the solutions worked well." After abandoning attempts to land at the Kennedy Space Centre in Florida because of bad weather on Thursday and Friday, the shuttle touched down at 3:49 p.m. ET. Atlantis's return from NASA's first manned flight of the year was marked by its trademark twin sonic booms that were heard from San Diego to Los Angeles. After deploying its parachute, the shuttle came to rest on the concrete runway under mostly sunny skies. This is the 51st time the shuttle has landed at the California air base. NASA would haveprefered a Kennedy landing. It is expected tocost $1.7 million and take up to 10 days to bring the shuttle back to Florida from California aboard a jumbo jet. Mission extended to do repairs During the crew's 14-day mission to the International Space Station, the astronauts installed a new truss segment, unfurled a new pair of power-generating solar arrays and activated a rotating joint that allows the new solar arrays to track the sun. Originally scheduled for 11 days, the mission was extended by two days to give astronauts time to repair a thermal blanket that had peeled back during the June 8 launch. Astronaut Danny Olivas stapled it back into place during a spacewalk last week. An extra day in orbit was added after the weather in Florida prevented a landing Thursday. Astronaut Sunita (Suni) Williams returned to Earth on Atlantis after spending more than six months at the space station. She set an endurance record for the longest single space flight by a woman at 195 days. During her stay, she also set the record for most time spacewalking by a woman. She told reportersshe was looking forward to a slice of pizza and walking on the beach with her husband and dog Gorby. But she was going to miss the space station. "When you've been somewhere for six months, it becomes your home and it's hard to leave," Williams said. The shuttle's visit to the space station was complicated by the crash of Russian computers that control orientation and oxygen production. Atlantis helped the station maintain its orientation until the computers were revived several days later when cosmonauts Fyodor Yurchikhin and Oleg Kotov used a cable to bypass a circuit board. Astronauts conserved the shuttle's power in case they needed to spend an extra day at the station. The cosmonauts at the space station on Thursday attempted to power the Russian computers without using the cable bypass, but were unsuccessful. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories IN DEPTH: Shuttle landings NASA delays shuttle landing IN DEPTH: Canada and the International Space Station Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca