http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/canada-climate-change-1.3940844
Climate change means more 'mild days' ahead for Canada, study suggests | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Climate change means more 'mild days' ahead for Canada, study suggests Social Sharing Technology & Science Climate change means more 'mild days' ahead for Canada, study suggests Research suggests climate change could increase the number of nice days with mild weather for Canadians. Social Sharing 'Mild days' are considered those between 18 C and 30 C, with little humidity or rainfall The Canadian Press · Posted: Jan 18, 2017 12:27 PM ET | Last Updated: January 18, 2017 Canada is expected to gain more 'mild days' due to climate change, a Princeton study suggests. They are defined as days topping out between 18 C and 30 C, with less than one millimetre of rainfall and not too much humidity. Like this day on the beach in Port Dover, Ont. (Dave Chidley/Canadian Press) comments Research suggests climate change could increase the number of nice days Canadians enjoy. Most global warming studies have focused on extreme weather or broad-scale averages of temperature and precipitation. But Karin van der Wiel, of New Jersey's Princeton University, said that's not how people will experience their new circumstances. "If you are a person living in Canada, it's never the average climate," said van der Wiel, whose paper was published today in the journal Climatic Change. Why a Canadian teen joined American youth in suing U.S. over climate change The fine print of Canada's new climate change deal Van der Wiel and her colleagues thought a good way to demonstrate the daily consequences of increased greenhouse gases in the air would be to calculate how many "mild days" different regions of the globe would experience — days topping out between 18 C and 30 C, with less than one millimetre of rainfall and not too much humidity. "We looked at the actual days that feel mild," she said. "These are the days that people can relate to — the day you had a really nice walk in the park or went to a baseball game and it was really nice." Canada, Europe likely to gain 'mild days' It turns out Canada is one of the places to be. The globe, on average, is expected to lose four days of nice weather by 2035 and 10 days by 2081. Africa, Asia and Latin America could see 15 to 50 fewer days of mild weather a year by the end of the century. Southern parts of the U.S. on the coast could lose a couple of weeks. On average, Earth will have four fewer days of mild and mostly dry weather by 2035 and 10 fewer of them by the end of the century, scientists predict. (Karin van der Wiel/NOAA/Princeton University via Associated Press) But Canada, along with other mid-latitude areas such as Europe, is likely to see gains of anywhere from five days to three weeks. Scientists have long surmised the impact of climate change could be most benign for humans in those regions. Van der Wiel's study is the first to frame the issue in a way that non-climatologists can understand. "It's really difficult to feel that what was a once-in-25-year event is now a one-in-20-year event," she said. "I think this 'mild day' that we came up with is easier to relate to." More rain, bigger forest fires Not that there isn't a down side. Van der Wiel's paper doesn't include a nasty day index and previous studies suggest we'll have plenty of them. Even in Canada, expect more flooding downpours and winter rains that wash away before they can nourish crops. Forest fires, already at record levels, are likely to get bigger. Rocky Mountain glaciers, the water source for many Prairie cities, are on their way out. The southern prairies will see more drought. An aerial view of the flooded areas along the Richelieu River in St-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Que., in May 2011. Canada can expect more extreme weather events, scientists say. (Associated Press) Forests once harvested for timber are likely to turn into prairie. Pacific coast fisheries are predicted to decline up to 10 per cent. The paper also points out that areas that will lose nice weather are much more heavily populated than ones that will gain some, which has implications for everything from weather-related disasters to the crops people depend on. Still, said van der Wiel, the paper is an attempt to translate the grand abstractions of climate models and global averages into a metric that makes sense. "We are scientists, but we are people too," she said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Why a Canadian teen joined American youth in suing U.S. over climate change The fine print of Canada's new climate change deal Arctic and Antarctic sea ice reach record lows 2016 on track to beat heat record despite slowdown in CO2 emissions As Paris Agreement comes into effect, UN warns we are in 'a race against time' Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca