https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/great-barrier-reef-outlook-poor-but-not-in-danger-unesco-says-1.3134496
Great Barrier Reef outlook poor but not 'in danger' UNESCO says | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Great Barrier Reef outlook poor but not 'in danger' UNESCO says Social Sharing Technology & Science Great Barrier Reef outlook poor but not 'in danger' UNESCO says The heritage committee of the UNESCO cultural agency said on Wednesday that the outlook for Australia's Great Barrier Reef was poor due to threats including pollution and climate change but stopped short of listing it as "in danger". Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Jul 01, 2015 9:12 AM ET | Last Updated: July 1, 2015 Previous Next Hide caption Toggle Fullscreen1 of 0 comments The heritage committee of the UNESCO cultural agency said on Wednesday that the outlook for Australia's Great Barrier Reef was poor due to threats including pollution and climate change but stopped short of listing it as "in danger". Some environmental campaigners had urged the committee to declare the reef in danger, a ruling that would have put pressure on Prime Minister Tony Abbott to take tougher conservation measures. The decision upheld a draft deal signed in May that was a relief for Canberra. Australia plans to safeguard the reef until 2050 with extra spending to limit pollution and restrictions on developing of new ports. "Climate change, poor water quality and impacts from coastal development are major threats to the property's health," the World Heritage Committee of the U.N. Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) said in a decision adopted at talks in Bonn. The committee lists 45 sites worldwide in danger, from corals in Belize to the city of Timbuktu in Mali. A listing is an embarrassment to governments and means the committee draws up a non-binding list of actions to restore sites. The reef, which stretches 2,000 kms (1,200 miles) along Australia's coast, is the world's largest living ecosystem, and brings in billions of dollars a year in tourism revenues. Australia announced an extra A$8 million ($6.2 million) for reef monitoring at the Bonn talks, saying it had "clearly heard" the concerns of the committee and of environmental groups. In May, Australia said it would more than double an area near the Great Barrier Reef subject to special curbs on shipping. "The plan now needs to translate into action, backed by adequate finance and rigorous science," said Tim Badman of the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Greenpeace said that the reef was in danger from planned coal mining in the Galilee Basin in Queensland. "Until the plans for the massive coal mine and port expansion are dropped, it's impossible to take Australia's claims that they are protecting the reef seriously," Greenpeace's Jess Panegyres said. Dermot O'Gorman, of the WWF conservation group, said that the committee's decision "places Australia on probation". CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Coral breeding may help cooler reefs survive warming, study finds Great Barrier Reef hit by unarmed bombs from U.S. jets Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca