https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/tyrannosaur-ancestor-1.3491123
Small, brainy tyrannosaur sheds light on how T. rex evolved | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Small, brainy tyrannosaur sheds light on how T. rex evolved Social Sharing Technology & Science Small, brainy tyrannosaur sheds light on how T. rex evolved How did evolution produce a monstrous killer like T. rex? A fossil find in Central Asia is giving scientists a glimpse of the process. Social Sharing Horse-sized Timurlengia euotic lacked massive, bone-snapping teeth, but was agile, with good hearing The Associated Press · Posted: Mar 14, 2016 4:35 PM ET | Last Updated: March 14, 2016 Hans-Dieter Sues, chair of the Department of Paleobiology at the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History, holds up a tooth of a new dinosaur, Timurlengia euotica, right, in comparison to the tooth of a Tyrannosaurus rex, left, following a news conference in Washington, Monday, March 14, 2016. (Susan Walsh/Associated Press) comments How did evolution produce a monstrous killer like T. rex? A fossil find in Central Asia is giving scientists a glimpse of the process. T. rex and other tyrannosaurs were huge, dominant predators, but they evolved from much smaller ancestors. The new discovery from Uzbekistan indicates that this supersizing happened quickly, and only after the appearance of some anatomical features that may have helped the monster tyrannosaurs hunt so effectively. The finding was reported Monday by Hans-Dieter Sues of the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History in Washington, Stephen Brusatte of the University of Edinburgh in Scotland, and others in a paper released by the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Stephen Brusatte talks to CBC's Quirks & Quarks March 19 at noon on CBC Radio One The discovery They report finding bones of a previously unknown member of the evolutionary branch that led to the huge tyrannosaurs. This earlier dinosaur lived about 90 million years ago, south of what is now the Aral Sea. It looked roughly like a T. rex, but was only about 10 to 12 feet long and weighed only about 600 pounds at most, Sues said. T. rex grew about four times as long and weighed more than 20 times as much. Horse-sized primitive tyrannosaur Timurlengia euotica lived in the middle Cretaceous (ca. 90-92 million years ago) of Uzbekistan. ( Image courtesy of Todd Marshall) Good timing The discovery helps fill in a frustrating gap in the tyrannosaur fossil record. Before that gap, which began some 100 million years ago, the ancestral creatures were only about as big as a horse. Right after the gap, at about 80 million years ago, tyrannosaurs were multi-ton behemoths like T. rex. The new finding shows the forerunners were still relatively small even just 90 million years ago. So the size boom happened pretty quickly. Standard equipment The inner ears of the newfound beast already had tyrannosaur features associated with good agility and hearing low-pitched sounds, which might have helped it detect prey or other animals at a distance. Hans-Dieter Sues, holds a vertebra fossil from a new dinosaur, with its braincase in the background. Timurlengia was relatively small but boasted the advanced brain and senses of the colossal apex predators like Tyrannosaurus rex. (Susan Walsh/Associated Press) Timurlengia was relatively small but boasted the advanced brain and senses of the colossal apex predators like Tyrannosaurus rex that lived at the end of the dinosaur age, paleontologist Steve Brusatte of Scotland's University of Edinburgh said. "This tells us that tyrannosaurs got smart before they got big." But the creature lacked the massive, bone-snapping teeth and large sinuses found in T. rex. The name The creature was dubbed Timurlengia euotica (TEE'-mer-len-GEE'-uh yoo-OH-tih-kuh). The name honours the ancient Central Asian ruler Tamerlane and the large inner ears of the beast. The fossils include a braincase and bones from the neck, back, tail, feet and hands. The creature wasn't a direct ancestor of T. rex, but it indicates what such ancestors looked like, Brusatte said. The payoff The discovery helps scientists understand how "the (anatomical) parts got put together ... on the path to T-rex-hood," said Thomas R. Holtz, Jr. of the University of Maryland, who didn't participate in the study. And suggests where to dig for more fossils to investigate the transition, he said. With a file from Reuters CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Tyrannosaur tracks bring life full circle for U of A grad student New dinosaur, cousin of T. Rex, discovered in Arctic Tyrannosaur teeth were serrated like steak knives New dinosaur finds soar in 'golden age' of discovery External Links Summary of the paper in PNAS Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca