https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/66-leg-predator-roamed-ancient-b-c-sea-floor-1.1109735
66-leg predator roamed ancient B.C. sea floor | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news 66-leg predator roamed ancient B.C. sea floor Social Sharing Technology & Science 66-leg predator roamed ancient B.C. sea floor Animals tracks left in a B.C. sea floor half a billion years ago have been linked to a bizarre ancient predator with 66 legs. Social Sharing Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Nov 09, 2011 3:58 PM ET | Last Updated: November 9, 2011 Tegopelte, known from fossil specimens, belonged to a group of animals that included a trilobites and was about the size of a flattened loaf of bread. (Marianne Collins) Tracks left in a B.C. sea floor half a billion years ago have been linked to a bizarre ancient predator with 66 legs. It is very rare for fossil tracks to be preserved on the sea floor, and it's even rarer to be able to identify them, said Nicholas Minter, the lead author of the study published Wednesday in the journal Proceedings of the Royal Society B. The footprints have given Canadian scientists the rare opportunity to indirectly observe the behaviour of a long-extinct animal known as Tegopelte gigas, which is distantly related to horseshoe crabs and millipedes. "It's very exciting. It's like a detective story in some ways," said Jean-Bernard Caron, a curator at the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto who first discovered the tracks in B.C.'s Yoho National Park in 2000. "It really adds to our record of early life. We never found [evidence of the] activity of these animals in that way before." The Burgess Shale The Burgess Shale is considered one of the most important fossil fields in the world due to age, diversity and the excellent preservation of its fossilized animals, which were mostly soft-bodied invertebrates. It was discovered in 1909 by American paleontologist Charles Doolittle Walcott on the southwest side of a ridge between Mount Field and Wapta Mountain, in Yoho National Park. The fossils date back to the Cambrian Period around 505 million years ago, when North America was rotated 90 degrees relative to its current position and British Columbia was located under a tropical sea near the equator. The importance of the site was recognized by UNESCO World Heritage Site designation in 1981. Three years later, it was integrated into the Canadian Rocky Mountain Parks UNESCO World Heritage Site which includes Banff, Jasper, Yoho and Kootenay National Parks and Assiniboine, Hamber and Robson Provincial Parks. The trail of footprints several metres long – known as a "trackway" — was the first ever found in the Burgess Shale, considered one of the most important fossil fields in the world. Most fossils found there have been the bodies of strange, undersea creatures that lived in equatorial seas during an ancient period known as the Cambrian Explosion. The trackway was embedded in such a large slab of rock that Caron was only able to take a small piece of it back with him for analysis. In 2008, he returned with a helicopter that airlifted out the trackway in carefully packed fragments so they could be shipped back to the museum. Caron then sought help from Minter, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Saskatchewan and Gabriela Mangano, a geology professor, at the same university, who had experience analyzing trackways and other types of "trace fossils" – fossil evidence of animals' activities rather than the remains of their physical bodies. Minter had analyzed the tracks of related animals on land, but never ones from underwater. In order for such undersea tracks to be preserved, he said, they had to be made in very firm, stiff mud and then covered in sediments that could help protect them. Based on the tracks, the researchers think Tegopelte was a predator that could move very quickly and make sharp turns. (Royal Ontario Museum) In this case, the tracks were "very distinctive," Minter said. Based on the size of the trackways, the animal must have been about 30 centimetres long, and from their grouping, the animal that made them had to have had at least 25 pairs of legs. "When you sort of compare that to all the animals that are known in the Burgess Shale, there's really only one suspect that's left," he said. Tegopelte, known from fossil specimens, belonged to a group of animals that included a trilobites and was about the size of a flattened loaf of bread. It was an arthropod — a relative of insects, crabs and millipedes — that at first glance resembles a giant woodlouse. However, unlike many well-known arthropods, it had a soft carapace without segments. "It's kind of hard to describe," Minter said. "The animals back then were all a bit strange." Once the researchers had figured out what animal the tracks belonged to, they examined the fossils of Tegopelte to see how much its legs were able to move and match that to the prints themselves. They found that each of Tegopelte's legs made only brief contact with the ground in sequence, forming a wave of movement along the length of its body. "We described it as skimming across the surface," Minter said. The tracks suggested Tegopelte could move very quickly and make tight turns, consistent with other evidence that it was a top predator within its ecosystem. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Quirks & Quarks: Download an interview with Nicholas Minter or listen to the rest of the show 4-footed animals emerged earlier than thought: researchers Rockies fossils yield 8 new species That's no lobster: scientists discover 'T. Rex' of Cambrian period External Links Article abstract Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca