https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/el-nino-forecast-update-1.3223072
El Nino will be strong, but won't break records, NOAA says | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news El Nino will be strong, but won't break records, NOAA says Social Sharing Technology & Science El Nino will be strong, but won't break records, NOAA says The current El Nino weather phenomenon is expected to peak between October and January and could turn into one of the strongest on record, experts from the World Meteorological Organization say. Social Sharing So far, El Nino is 3rd strongest on record The Associated Press · Posted: Sep 10, 2015 3:24 PM ET | Last Updated: September 10, 2015 In this Sept. 23. 2014 file photo, a motorcyclist negotiates heavily flooded streets as rain falls in Miami Beach, Fla. A combination of sea level rise from human caused global warming and the giant El Nino will likely combine to increase the type of minor street flooding that doesn't cause big damage, but lots of inconvenience, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. (Lynne Sladky/Associated Press) comments U.S. government forecasters upgraded this year's El Nino to an unusual strong status, but said it's probably not a record breaker or drought buster. Mike Halpert, deputy director of the federal Climate Prediction Center at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said the current worldwide weather shifting event doesn't match the monster El Nino of 1997-1998, nor is it likely to. 'Biggest El Nino of our generation' may be tempered by The Blob El Nino this year could be a record-breaker El Nino will be a hurricane slayer, forecasters predict With even warmer waters in the central Pacific in August, the hottest in more than 17 years, the prediction center moved the El Nino up from moderate status. So far the El Nino is the third strongest on record, behind 1997-98 and a weird one in 1987-88 that peaked early. Meteorologists said strong El Ninos usually dump heavy rains on southern California, but its four-year water deficit is too big to be erased in one wet winter. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories This year's El Nino will be the strongest in 18 years, WMO says El Nino this year could be a record-breaker Ocean 'blob' could be responsible for warmer temperatures El Nino will be a hurricane slayer, forecasters predict Ocean 'blob' of warm water bringing poor food for B.C. wild salmon "The Blob" wreaking havoc in the Pacific External Links Latest El Nino report Climate Predication Center: El Nino Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca