http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/global-heat-records-smashed-in-first-half-of-2015-1.3160656
Global heat records smashed in first half of 2015 | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Global heat records smashed in first half of 2015 Social Sharing Technology & Science Global heat records smashed in first half of 2015 Earth dialled the heat up last month, smashing warm temperature records for both the month and the first half of the year. Social Sharing June breaks monthly record as well The Associated Press · Posted: Jul 20, 2015 3:44 PM ET | Last Updated: July 21, 2015 Renee Jaime, 12, and her aunt, Sandra Jaime, of Mexico, shield themselves from the sun as they visit the Great Salt Lake, near Salt Lake City, which saw record temperatures in June. Globally, the first six months of 2015 were one-sixth of a degree warmer than the previous record, set in 2010, averaging 14.35 Celsius (57.83 degrees Fahrenheit). (Rick Bowmer/Associated Press) comments Earth dialled the heat up last month, smashing warm temperature records for both the month and the first half of the year. A scientific agency with the U.S. government calculated that world's average temperature in June hit 16.33 Celsius (61.48 degrees Fahrenheit), breaking the old record set last year by 0.12 degrees Celsius (0.22 degrees Fahrenheit). 2014 was hottest year in modern record Hottest year on global record was Canada's coolest in 18 years National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration climate scientist Jessica Blunden said usually temperature records are broken by one or two one-hundredths of a degree, not nearly a quarter of a degree. Records go back 136 years. The first six months of 2015 were one-sixth of a degree warmer than the old record, set in 2010, averaging 14.35 Celsius (57.83 degrees Fahrenheit). Blunden said that 2015 is likely to be the warmest year on record. That would break the new global heat record set in 2014. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Video VIDEO: Abnormally warm temperatures in Greenland cause for concern 2014 was hottest year in modern record Hottest year on global record was Canada's coolest in 18 years 'Hottest year' record likely for 2014 after warmest October September 2014 was the hottest on record External Links NOAA news release NASA news release Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca