http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/story/2012/08/29/arctic-sea-ice-record-low-nsidc.html
Arctic sea ice levels hit record low | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Arctic sea ice levels hit record low Social Sharing World Arctic sea ice levels hit record low The amount of sea ice in the Arctic is at an all-time low, suggesting that climate change is leading to a dramatic shift in the north, according to a new report from the National Snow and Ice Data Center. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Aug 29, 2012 11:37 AM ET | Last Updated: August 29, 2012 This image shows the extent of Arctic sea ice on Sunday, the day the sea ice dipped to its smallest extent ever recorded in more than three decades of satellite measurements, according to NASA and the National Snow and Ice Data Center. (NASA) The amount of sea ice in the Arctic is at an all-time low, suggesting that climate change is leading to a dramatic shift in the north, according to a new report. In an analysis released this week, the U.S.-based National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC) said that Arctic sea ice cover has melted to a record low, breaking the previous record set in 2007. Satellite data from August 26 showed that sea ice extent fell to 4.10 million square kilometers, the lowest amount ever seen since observations of the polar cap began three decades ago. On September 18, 2007, the date of the previous record low, sea ice extent was measured at 4.17 million square kilometres. "By itself it's just a number, and occasionally records are going to get set," said NSIDC scientist Walt Meier. "But in the context of what's happened in the last several years and throughout the satellite record, it's an indication that the Arctic sea ice cover is fundamentally changing." The six lowest ice levels on record have occurred in the last six years, the report noted. Arctic melt Every summer the Arctic ice cap melts down to what scientists call its "minimum" before colder weather builds the ice cover back up. With two to three weeks left in the summer melt season, scientists expect that this year’s minimum ice extent could fall even lower. NSIDC will release a full analysis of the melt season in early October. Arctic sea ice cover has been in a long-term decline, falling about 13 per cent per decade, a figure scientists say is a strong signal of global warming. "I think we’re going to see in the not too distant future is that areas like the North Pole will even become ice-free briefly in summer," said Ted Scambos, lead scientist at NSIDC, adding that the Arctic Ocean could become ice-free by 2030. The NSIDC findings echo measurements taken earlier this month by the European Space Agency, suggesting that the thinning of Arctic ice is progressing 50 per cent faster than many polar scientists had previously predicted. It pointed to global warming and rising greenhouse gases as possible contributing factors. Impact of sea ice decline The declining ice may affect fish and animal populations in the north, according to the World Wildlife Federation. "Migrating whales, migrating birds may arrive in the Arctic at a time when there's really not as much life to sustain them as there would have been in previous times," said Clive Tesar of the WWF Arctic Initiative. People living in Canada’s northern communities, who rely on local fauna, are already feeling the impact of the changing environment and are being forced to adapt. Lawrence Amos, a hunter in N.W.T., said that there used to be sea ice year-round surrounding Banks Island, on the cusp of the Arctic Ocean. But lately, once the ice melts in June, it doesn’t return until the fall. This is leading to fewer seals and sea animals in the area, preventing people from hunting and fishing as often as they used to, Amos said. "We have to buy more store-bought food and that changes our diet," Amos said. "Stuff like that costs a lot of money." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Arctic ice could vanish in 10 years, scientists warn Arctic sea ice loss unprecedented in 1,450 years Rapid melting of Arctic sea ice possibly explained Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca