http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/mushroom-shaped-deep-sea-animal-dendrogramma-baffles-scientists-1.2755448
Mushroom-shaped deep-sea animal Dendrogramma baffles scientists | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Mushroom-shaped deep-sea animal Dendrogramma baffles scientists Social Sharing Technology & Science Mushroom-shaped deep-sea animal Dendrogramma baffles scientists A mushroom-shaped animal found living in the deep sea off Australia is so unusual that it doesn't seem to fit into any known group of animals. Social Sharing Animal may be a 'living fossil' related to jellyfish and comb jellies Australian Broadcasting Corporation · Posted: Sep 04, 2014 10:00 AM ET | Last Updated: September 4, 2014 comments Scientists found the new mushroom-shaped animal, called Dendrogramma, while analyzing organisms collected at ocean depths of 400 and 1000 metres on the south-east Australian continental slope. ( Just et al./PLOS ONE) A mushroom-shaped animal that defies current classification systems has been found living in the dark depths of the Tasman Sea between Australia and New Zealand. The animal could be a "living fossil" from the pre-Cambrian period more than 450 million years ago, but further studies would be needed to confirm this, say the researchers in the journal PLOS ONE. Read the full paper in PLOS ONE "We've basically discovered an animal which we cannot place in the current animal system that science operates with," says lead author Jean Just of the Natural History Museum of Denmark. Just and colleagues found the new organism, called Dendrogramma, while analyzing organisms collected at depths of 400 and 1000 metres on the south-east Australian continental slope, east of Bass Strait. It is about 1.5 centimetres tall, a little over one centimetre wide and shaped like a mushroom. The animal has a dense layer of jelly-like material between its outer skin and inner stomach cell layers. And it has a combined mouth and anus in its "stalk'" that Just and colleagues suspect points down into the ocean floor sediments. From the several specimens collected, two new species were identified in a new genus, Dendrogramma enigmatica and Dendrogramma discoides, in the new family, Dendrogrammatidae. The researchers say Dendrogramma may be related to members of the Cnidaria (jellyfish) group of animals or another primitive group called Ctenophora (comb jellies). But the Dendrogramma lacks the stinging cells that define Cnidaria and the tentacles that define Ctenophora, says Just. Living fossil? The newly-discovered creature has similarities to extinct life forms from the Ediacaran period, 540 to 580 million years before the present, the researchers found. They point to branches in the digestive system, that give Dendrogramma its name, and which are visible in the "disc" of the mushroom shape. Just says it's a "long shot" but Dendrogramma could be a descendent of pre-Cambrian life, although molecular studies are needed to provide more definitive answers on its relationship to the tree of life. Australian palaeontologist Jim Gehling from the South Australian Museum agrees. "It is a pity that the molecular affinities of Dendrogramma cannot be determined until new specimens are collected, due to the initial preservation in formalin that damaged the nucleic acids of these organisms," he says. Gehling says while there are interesting similarities between Dendrogramma and some Ediacara fossils there are also significant differences. "Many weird Ediacaran forms remain a biological mystery. Some of these defy comparison with animals or plants that populate both ancient and modern marine settings," he says. "The tiny mushroom-shaped Dendrogramma species share some patterns familiar in the so-called Trilobozoans of Ediacara," says Gehling. "Unfortunately, biological body patterns are often repeated in unrelated organisms if only because there are limited ways of maximizing surface area within body spaces." However, gathering fresh specimens for molecular studies won't be easy. "A thousand metres is a long way down and to hit the right spot can take a long time," says Just. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Two thirds of world's marine species still unidentified, study says 4 new species of 'killer' sponges discovered off Pacific coast Sea anemones found living beneath Antarctic ice shelf Canadian lake offers new glimpse at 'tree of life' External Links Read the full paper in PLOS ONE Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca