https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/biodiversity-conference-targets-bio-piracy-1.761410
Biodiversity conference targets bio-piracy | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Biodiversity conference targets bio-piracy Social Sharing Technology & Science Biodiversity conference targets bio-piracy Delegates to a UN conference in Germany on biological diversity agreed Friday to develop measures to counter bio-piracy and protect marine wildlife and rainforests. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: May 31, 2008 1:06 AM ET | Last Updated: May 31, 2008 Delegates to a UN conference in Germany on biological diversity agreed Friday to develop measures to counter bio-piracy and protect marine wildlife and rainforests. But a conservation group lamented the failure to adopt clear targets and timelines. "They haven't agreed to specifics and they haven't agreed to specifics in the past," said Gordon Shepherd, international director for global policy for WWF, which is also known as the World Wildlife Fund. He said a timeline would make the effort transparent and enable observers to see whether targets were being achieved. Approximately 5,000 delegates from 191 countries agreed to work on drafting regulations that would be approved at the next conference in Nagoya, Japan, in 2010. Several governments at the UN Convention on Biological Diversity pledged funds to protect undeveloped forests, with Norway announcing plans to spend $930 million US annually for the next three years and Germany saying Wednesday that it will commit $775 million US over the next four years. Germany's environment minister, Sigmar Gabriel, said he had not expected "real progress to be made on so many points," hinting at doubts before the conference that delegates would be able to agree on the issues. Promise to slow species loss Delegates pledged to stem bio-piracy — the claiming of unauthorized ownership of a natural organisms for profit — and reaffirmed a commitment to drastically slow species loss by 2010. Part of the plan to halt bio-piracy, which should be finished in 2010, is a new plan to reimburse biodiverse developing countries that provide wild strains that strengthen crops in industrialized countries against disease, Shepherd said. A major point of discussion during the conference was the questionable ecological benefits of biofuels and the strain that large-scale production of the fuels might put on crop and forest land. Delegates agreed to take a more definitive stand on biofuels at the 2010 conference. Shepherd welcomed a plan for High Seas Marine protected areas, which would be declared off limits to human activity, saying the move was a first for the conference. Delegates also ruled that genetic engineering to produce new varieties of trees should be allowed only after weighing the risks of each individual research project. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Losing biodiversity may hurt medical research: UN official Ottawa targets biodiversity preservation External Links UN Convention on Biological Diversity Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca