https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/the-top-10-new-species-of-2011-1.1111587
The Top 10 new species of 2011 | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news The Top 10 new species of 2011 Social Sharing Technology & Science·Photos The Top 10 new species of 2011 A 'pancake' fish, an antelope and a jumping cockroach have been named among the Top 10 newly discovered species for 2011. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: May 24, 2011 4:14 PM ET | Last Updated: May 24, 2011 A two-metre long monitor lizard from the northern Philippines had managed to remain hidden from science — until now. The lizard, Varanus bitatawa, is one of the Top 10 new species discovered in 2010 according to the International Institute for Species Exploration at Arizona State University. For each of the past four years, the institute has put out a list of what it considers the most interesting and important finds among thousands of new species discovered the previous year. A small African antelope, known as Walter's duiker, was a surprising find in 2010. Duikers are a well-studied group of mammals, but this particular species had ever been described before. It was first discovered at a bushmeat market in West Africa. Some species on the list were chosen for their association with world events, such as a bacterium that spends its time consuming iron-oxide from the Titanic. A new species of fish was found in the region affected by the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. The Louisiana pancake batfish is flat as a pancake and hops on its fins. Other species were chosen for their unique features. These include an underwater mushroom, a large toothed leech, and a cockroach that can jump just as well as a grasshopper. The Top 10 list is rounded out with a spider named after Charles Darwin, a glowing mushroom and a cricket that pollinates a rare orchid. Anyone can nominate a new species for the annual list, provided it was described for the first time during the previous year. A committee of taxonomic experts choose the Top 10 from the nominations. The International Institute for Species Exploration also puts out an annual report that looks at the overall totals and trends in new species discoveries in a given year. This lags a few years behind the Top 10. The most recent report from 2010 looked at the 2008 calendar year, when over 18,000 new living species were described. The institute estimates that more than 10 million species of plants and animals exist on earth but as of 2008, less than 2 million had been described. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Most ocean species still unknown after census Robotic sub films new species off Indonesia External Links Top 10 New Species - 2011 Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca