http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/great-barrier-reef-bleaching-1.3510410
Northern Great Barrier Reef experiences worst coral bleaching on record, researchers warn | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Northern Great Barrier Reef experiences worst coral bleaching on record, researchers warn Social Sharing Technology & Science·Video Northern Great Barrier Reef experiences worst coral bleaching on record, researchers warn The most untouched part of the Great Barrier Reef is seeing the most severe coral bleaching in history, researchers report. Social Sharing Heat stress causes symbiotic algae to disappear from coral, leading to bleaching, starvation Thomson Reuters · Posted: Mar 29, 2016 10:43 AM ET | Last Updated: March 29, 2016 Latest research shows 95% of Australian reef affected 1:03 comments Recent video reveals that 95 per cent of Australia's Great Barrier Reef's northern section shows coral bleaching, the ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies says. The group, from Townsville's James Cook University, filmed over 500 coral reefs over a period of six days from Cairns to Papua New Guinea and says that the most untouched part of the Great Barrier Reef is seeing the most severe bleaching in history. The World Wildlife Fund released a dramatic video and photos of bleaching on Lizard Island, a different part of the reef, earlier this month. Corals, which are animals, have a symbiotic relationship with algae that give them their colour and help provide them with food. During stressful conditions such as heat waves, the algae disappear from the corals, leading to coral bleaching. If the stressful conditions last more than eight weeks, the corals can die of starvation. Authorities this month also said that areas of the World Heritage Site were experiencing the worst bleaching in 15 years, at least partially as a result of the current El Nino weather effect, one of the strongest in two decades. Recent video shows that 95 per cent of Australia's Great Barrier Reef's northern section shows coral bleaching, the ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies says. (ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies) Scientists said the Great Barrier Reef needs a break in El Nino conditions within weeks if some coral areas are to survive, but the Australian Bureau of Meteorology's most recent forecast says there will be a continuation of El Nino conditions. 2015 was the hottest year on record and 2016 could be even hotter due to El Nino, the World Meteorological Organization has said. The World Wildlife Fund released a dramatic video and photos of bleaching on Lizard Island, a different part of the reef, earlier this month. (Catlin Seaview Survey) The Great Barrier Reef stretches 2,000 kilometres (1,200 miles) along Australia's northeast coast and is the world's largest living ecosystem. It brings in billions of dollars a year in tourism revenue. UNESCO's World Heritage Committee last May stopped short of placing the Great Barrier Reef on an "in danger" list, but the ruling raised long-term concerns about its future. The ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies filmed over 500 coral reefs over a period of six days from Cairns to Papua New Guinea and says that the most untouched part of the Great Barrier Reef is seeing the most severe bleaching in history. (The ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies) The Great Barrier Reef: 5 fascinating things about it CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories The Great Barrier Reef: 5 fascinating things about it As It Happens Biologists want to make 'super coral' to take on climate change El Nino is bleaching Christmas Island corals, says UVic scientist Researchers accelerate evolution in attempt to save Hawaii's coral reefs Algae on coral in UAE 'gives hope' against bleaching External Links WWF news release News release: Coral Bleaching Taskforce documents most severe bleaching on record Coral bleaching (Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority) Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca