https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/model-shows-how-4-winged-dinosaur-could-glide-1.926568
Model shows how 4-winged dinosaur could glide | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Model shows how 4-winged dinosaur could glide Social Sharing Technology & Science Model shows how 4-winged dinosaur could glide An early four-winged, feathered dinosaur appears to have been a good glider, researchers say, providing clues about the origin of flight in birds. Social Sharing Microraptor 'a very successful glider' CBC News · Posted: Jan 26, 2010 11:53 AM ET | Last Updated: January 26, 2010 Scientists from the University of Kansas created a model of a Microraptor gui to show its gliding capabilities. ((University of Kansas)) An early four-winged, feathered dinosaur appears to have been a good glider, researchers say, providing clues about the origin of flight in birds. Scientists at the University of Kansas and China's Northeastern University collaborated to build gliding models based on the hawk-sized Microraptor gui, which lived 120 million years ago. "We've done the scientific work and flight tests to show that Microraptor was a very successful glider," stated David Burnham of the University of Kansas. Fossils of the Microraptor were first found by Chinese farmers in 2000. A fossil found in 2003 was detailed enough that paleontologists could count the feathers on its wings, Burnham said. More than 20 Microraptor fossils have been found. Unlike birds, Microraptor had feathers on both its front limbs and rear limbs, so scientists have debated how the dinosaur would have positioned its wings as it glided. "The controversy was that these animals couldn't spread their hind wings to glide," said Burnham. "But we've been able to articulate the bones in their hip socket to show that they could fly." David Alexander of the University of Kansas prepares to hand-launch an early version of the Microraptor model. ((Helen Miller Alexander)) In the study, published in Proceedings of the National Academies of Sciences, researchers led by David Alexander of the University of Kansas built a model of the dinosaur, based on a cast of one of its fossils, out of plywood, balsa wood, carbon fibre and bird feathers. They then attached the hind wings in three different positions and tested how well the model could glide in each configuration. They found that the most stable wing position was a sprawling posture similar to that of modern gliding mammals, such as flying squirrels and the colugo, a tree-dwelling animal from Southeast Asia. A competing theory, advanced by other paleontologists in 2007, suggested a "biplane" wing configuration, reminiscent of the Wright Brothers' early airplanes. The University of Kansas team found that this would have required an impossibly heavy head to maintain the animal's centre of gravity. The researchers also said the 18-centimetre feathers on Microraptor's hind wings would have made it clumsy on land, suggesting it spent most of its time in the trees. They said this supports the "tree-down" model for the origin of flight in feathered dinosaurs and birds, which suggests that tree-dwelling dinosaurs glided from branch to branch, leading to the evolution of flight. Some paleontologists favour a "ground-up" model, theorizing that flight first emerged in feathered, ground-dwelling dinosaurs that hopped on two legs. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Bird-like dinosaur was venomous: scientists External Links KU.edu: Researchers of microraptor shed light on ancient origin of bird flight Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca