https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/iran-aims-to-send-an-astronaut-to-space-within-10-years-1.739770
Iran aims to send an astronaut to space within 10 years | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Iran aims to send an astronaut to space within 10 years Social Sharing Technology & Science Iran aims to send an astronaut to space within 10 years Iran's space agency plans to send a manned rocket into space in the next 10 years, state television reported on Thursday. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Aug 21, 2008 10:02 AM ET | Last Updated: August 21, 2008 Iran's space agency plans to send a manned rocket into space in the next 10 years, state television reported on Thursday. Space agency chief Reza Taghipoor said the exact date of the mission would be determined in the next year. The announcement is the latest signal of Iran's growing ambition to develop a space and satellite program and comes days after the country announced it had launched a dummy satellite into orbit. Taghipoor said the two-stage rocket, launched Sunday, released equipment that beamed flight data back to ground control, though U.S. officials said the rocket fell short of its claimed success. In February, the Islamic republic's space agency unveiled its first major space centre and its first domestically built satellite, and it also tested one of its rockets. Iran has said it wants to put its own satellites into orbit to monitor natural disasters and improve telecommunications. Its developing space program has provoked unease abroad, as the same technology used to put satellites into space can also deliver warheads. After Sunday's rocket launch, Iranian officials also said they hoped other Muslim countries would be able to use their satellites for communications. Iran is hoping to join a select few countries with the ability to independently place satellites into orbit, a group that includes regional rival Israel as well as India. The plan for manned spaceflight is even more ambitious, with only the United States, Russia and China having successfully launched such missions, though Japan and India have also stated ambitions to launch their own, independent space programs. The first Iranian to go to space was Anousheh Ansari, the Iranian-American businesswoman who flew aboard a Russian Soyuz rocket as the fourth space tourist to visit the International Space Station. With files from the Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Iran test-fires more missiles in Persian Gulf: reports Iran launches rocket, unveils space centre Q & A: Anousheh Ansari Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca