http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/species-extinctions-will-rise-from-global-warming-study-1.629553
Species extinctions will rise from global warming: study | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Species extinctions will rise from global warming: study Social Sharing Technology & Science Species extinctions will rise from global warming: study Global warming has already caused extinctions in the most sensitive habitats and will continue to cause more species to disappear over the next 50 to 100 years, according to a new study. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Nov 15, 2006 12:22 PM ET | Last Updated: November 15, 2006 Global warming has already caused extinctions in the most sensitive habitats and will continue to cause more species to disappear over the next 50 to 100 years, according to a new study. The study,conducted at the University of Texas at Austin and published online Wednesday in the Annual Review of Ecology, Evolution and Systematics, also predicted that specieswill not evolve fast enough to prevent extinction. "This is absolutely the most comprehensive synthesis of the impact of climate change on species to date," said biologist Dr. Camille Parmesan, the study's author, in a release Wednesday. Parmesan reviewed more than 800 scientific studies on the effects of human-induced climate change on thousands of species. "Because there are now so many papers on this subject, we can start pulling together some patterns that we weren't able to before," she said. Previously published studies predicted that global warming would most severely affect species restricted to cold climate habitats,such as the Earth's poles or mountain tops, as well as habitats with narrow temperature tolerances,such as tropical corals. Less than a decade later, those predictions haveproved accurate, Parmesan said. "We are seeing stronger responses in species in areas with very cold-adapted species that have had strong warming trends, like Antarctica and the Arctic. That's something we expected a few years ago, but didn't quite have the data to compare regions." The most sensitive species are going extinct or shifting their ranges geographically as their original habitats become inhospitable, the data found. Last month, a 700-page reportcommissioned by the British government warned of the extinction of 20 to 40per centof wildlife species unless theissue ofclimate change is immediately addressed. Global warming deniers 'out of step': UN chief The studies Parmesan analyzed also show that some species — those with short generation times like insects — are evolving in response to climate change, but not in ways that could prevent extinction. "To really come up with something new that's going to allow a species to live in a completely new environment takes a million years," she said. She saidsome good newscan be found,in thatsome species had a few individuals adept at moving, indicating some populations are evolving better dispersal abilities. The study comes as UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan told the UN conference on climate change Wednesday that those who would deny global warming or delay taking action against it are "out of step" and "out of time." "Let no one say we cannot afford to act," Annan declared, in a clear reference to those,including the Bush administration, who contend that reducing global-warming gases would set back economies too much. With files from the Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Climate change a 'threat,' Annan tells conference Blair calls for 'bold' action after stark climate change warning Global warming Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca