https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/world-temperatures-high-1.3941142
World temperatures hit new high in 2016 for 3rd year in row | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news World temperatures hit new high in 2016 for 3rd year in row Social Sharing Technology & Science World temperatures hit new high in 2016 for 3rd year in row From unprecedented highs in India to ice melt in the Arctic, the heat is creeping closer to a ceiling set for global warming. Social Sharing Data comes ahead of inauguration day for Trump, who questions whether climate change has human cause Thomson Reuters · Posted: Jan 18, 2017 2:01 PM ET | Last Updated: January 18, 2017 Steam and exhaust rise from different companies on January 6, 2017 in Oberhausen, Germany. World temperatures hit a record high for the third year in a row in 2016, U.S. government agencies said on Wednesday. Greenhouse gases are among the chief causes of global warming and climate change. (Lukas Schulze/Getty Images) comments World temperatures hit a record high for the third year in a row in 2016, creeping closer to a ceiling set for global warming with extremes including unprecedented heat in India and ice melt in the Arctic, U.S. government agencies said Wednesday. The data, supported by findings from other organizations, was issued two days before the inauguration of U.S. president-elect Donald Trump, who questions whether climate change has a human cause. Average surface temperatures over land and the oceans in 2016 were 0.94 degrees Celsius above the 20th century average of 13.9 C, according to the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). All that heat warrants a cool down. This man did just that during a week full of high 40 degree Celsius temperatures in Agartala, India. (Jayanta Dey/Reuters) U.S. space agency NASA reported almost identical data, and the U.K. Met Office and University of East Anglia, which also track global temperatures for the United Nations, said 2016 was the hottest year on record. Temperatures, lifted both by man-made greenhouse gases and a natural El Nino event that released heat from the Pacific Ocean last year, beat the previous record in 2015, when 200 nations agreed a plan to limit global warming. That peak had in turn eclipsed 2014. 2016 on track to beat heat record despite slowdown in CO2 emissions Climate change means more 'mild days' ahead for Canada, study suggests "We don't expect record years every year, but the ongoing, long-term warming trend is clear," said Gavin Schmidt, director of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies. Warmest year for North America Global temperature records date back to the 1880s. Temperatures are unlikely to set a new peak in 2017 after the El Nino faded, even as greenhouse gases from burning fossil fuels keep building up in the atmosphere, led by China and the United States. Piers Forster, climate expert at the University of Leeds, said this year was likely to be cooler. "However, unless we have a major volcanic eruption, I expect the record to be broken again within a few years," he said. Ash from big eruptions can dim sunlight. An Indian white tiger watches another as it cools off in a pond in its enclosure at Chhat Bir Zoo on the outskirts of Chandigarh in May 2016. The ferocious heat during that month set a new national record. (Shammi Mehra/AFP/Getty Images) Among last year's extreme weather events, wildfires in Alberta were the costliest natural disaster in Canada's history, while Phalodi in west India recorded a temperature of 51 C on May 19, a national record. North America also had its warmest year on record, the Great Barrier Reef off Australia suffered severe damage from rising temperatures, and sea ice in both the Arctic Ocean and around Antarctica is at record lows for mid-January. 'Trump cannot ignore' At a conference in Paris in late 2015, governments agreed a plan to phase out fossil fuels this century and shift to renewable energies such as wind and solar power. They agreed to limit warming to "well below" 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial times, while pursuing efforts for 1.5 C. By that yardstick, the rise stood at about 1.1 C in 2016. 5 key points in Paris Agreement on climate change "Long-term indicators of human-caused climate change reached new heights in 2016," Petteri Taalaas, head of the U.N.'s World Meteorological Organisation said, referring to rising levels of carbon dioxide and methane. Trump, who once described climate change as a hoax, has threatened to cancel or renegotiate the Paris Agreement and shift to exploiting cheap domestic coal, oil and gas. He backed down on that threat during a post-election interview with the New York Times, where he said he would "keep an open mind" about the Paris accord. French Ambassador for the international Climate Negotiations Responsible for COP21 Laurence Tubiana, Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Christiana Figueres and Foreign Affairs Minister and President-designate of COP21 Laurent Fabius celebrate after adopting the global warming pact at the COP21 Climate Conference in Le Bourget, north of Paris, on December 12, 2015. (Francois Guillot/AFP/Getty Images) At a meeting in Marrakech days after Trump's victory, almost 200 nations said it was an "urgent duty" to combat climate change. "The hottest year on record is such a clear warning siren that even president-elect Trump cannot ignore," said Mark Maslin, professor of climatology at University College London. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Climate change means more 'mild days' ahead for Canada, study suggests 2016 on track to beat heat record despite slowdown in CO2 emissions Why a Canadian teen joined American youth in suing U.S. over climate change 5 key points in Paris Agreement on climate change The fine print of Canada's new climate change deal Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca