http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/july-2015-was-the-hottest-month-on-modern-record-1.3197748
July 2015 was the hottest month on modern record | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news July 2015 was the hottest month on modern record Social Sharing Technology & Science July 2015 was the hottest month on modern record Earth just keeps getting hotter. July was the planet's warmest month on record, smashing old marks, U.S. weather officials said. Social Sharing NOAA says 2015 will likely end up the hottest year on record, beating last year The Associated Press · Posted: Aug 20, 2015 12:11 PM ET | Last Updated: August 21, 2015 Images of people sweating out the hottest days ever recorded on Earth 2:04 comments Earth just keeps getting hotter. July was the planet's warmest month on record, smashing old marks, U.S. weather officials said. And it's almost a dead certain lock that this year will beat last year as the warmest year on record, they said. July's average temperature was 16.6 Celsius (61.86 degrees Fahrenheit), beating the previous global mark set in 1998 and 2010 by 0.08 C, according to figures released Thursday by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. That's a large margin for weather records, with previous monthly heat records broken by a 20th of a degree or less. "It just reaffirms what we already know: that the Earth is warming," said NOAA climate scientist Jake Crouch. "The warming is accelerating and we're really seeing it this year." 2014 was hottest year in modern record Hottest year on global record was Canada's coolest in 18 years NOAA records go back to 1880. Separate calculations by NASA and the Japanese weather agency also found July 2015 to be a record. The first seven months of 2015 were the hottest January-to-July span on record, according to NOAA. The seven-month average temperature of 14.7 Celsius ( 58.43 F) is 0.85 degrees warmer than the 20th-century average and 0.09 degrees warmer than the old record set in 2010. Given that the temperatures have already been so high already — especially the oceans, which are slow to cool — NOAA climate scientist Jessica Blunden said she is "99 per cent certain" that 2015 will be the hottest on record for the globe. The oceans would have to cool dramatically to prevent it, and they are trending warmer, not cooler, she said. Crouch, Blunden and other scientists outside of the government said these temperatures are caused by a combination of man-made climate change and a strong, near-record El Nino. An El Nino is a warming of the equatorial Pacific Ocean that alters weather worldwide for about a year. The oceans drove the globe to record levels. Not only were the world's oceans the warmest they've been in July, but they were 0.75 degrees warmer than the 20th-century average. European heat wave Previous Next Hide caption Toggle Fullscreen1 of 0 The heat hit hard in much of Europe and the Middle East. It was the hottest July on record in Austria, where records go back to 1767. Parts of France had temperatures that were on average 4 degrees above normal and temperatures hit 38.2 C in the Netherlands, which is a rarity. And an Iranian city had a heat index (the "feels like" temperature) of 74 Celsius (165 F), which was still not quite record. Nine of the 10 hottest months on record have happened since 2005, according to NOAA. Twenty-two of the 25 hottest months on record have occurred after the year 2000. The other three were in 1998 and 1997. This shows that despite what climate change doubters say, there is no pause in warming since 1998, Blunden said. It doesn't matter if a month or a year is No. 1 or No. 2 or No. 5 hottest on record, said University of Georgia climate scientist Marshall Shepherd. "The records are getting attention but I worry the public will grow weary of reports of new records each month," Shepherd said in an email. "I am more concerned about how the Earth is starting to respond to the changes and the implications for my children." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Global heat records smashed in first half of 2015 Video VIDEO: Abnormally warm temperatures in Greenland cause for concern 2014 was hottest year in modern record Hottest year on global record was Canada's coolest in 18 years 'Hottest year' record likely for 2014 after warmest October September 2014 was the hottest on record External Links NOAA news release Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca