https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/primates-extinction-crisis-gorillas-monkeys-lemurs-report-1.3941476
World's primates facing extinction crisis, new report says | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news World's primates facing extinction crisis, new report says Social Sharing Technology & Science World's primates facing extinction crisis, new report says Gorillas, monkeys, lemurs and other primates are in danger of becoming extinct, and scientists say it's our fault our closest living relatives are in trouble, a new international study warns. Social Sharing Gorillas, monkeys and lemurs among primates facing extinction The Associated Press · Posted: Jan 18, 2017 4:14 PM ET | Last Updated: January 18, 2017 Lemurs are among the primates headed toward extinction, according to a new international study. About 60 per cent of the more than 500 primate species, including lemurs, gorillas and monkeys, are now threatened with extinction. (Martin Meissner/Associated Press) comments Gorillas, monkeys, lemurs and other primates are in danger of becoming extinct, and scientists say it's our fault our closest living relatives are in trouble, a new international study warns. About 60 per cent of the more than 500 primate species are "now threatened with extinction" and three out of four primate species have shrinking populations, according to a study published Wednesday in the journal Science Advances. This is a critical world problem. - Researcher Paul Garber While scientists had tracked dwindling numbers of individuals and groups of primates in forests around the world, this is the first big-picture look. The result was "a bigger wake-up call" than previously thought, said researcher Paul Garber of the University of Illinois. "The outlook is not very good," said Garber, who recently returned from studying marmosets in the jungles of Brazil.. Primate problems are recent The decline has been blamed on human activities including hunting, mining and oil drilling. Logging, ranching and farming have also destroyed precious habitat in Africa, Asia and South America. Primates, which include apes, monkeys and humans, have forward-facing eyes and grasping ability that set them apart from other mammals. Scientists study them to learn about human behaviour and evolution. There are only about 14,000 Sumatran orangutans left in the world, according to a study by 31 primate experts published in the journal Science Advances. (Joshua Paul/Associated Press) Many of the problems faced by primates are recent. For example, the Grauer's gorilla dropped from a population of 17,000 in 1995 to just about 3,800 now, mostly from bushmeat hunting and mineral mining, the study found. There are only about 14,000 Sumatran orangutans left in the world. The Hainan gibbon in China is down to just 25 individuals, while 22 out of the 26 primate species in China are endangered, Garber said. Two-thirds of wildlife may disappear by 2020 — because of humans, says WWF Is the world running out of wilderness? About 94 per cent of the lemur species in the world are endangered. "We need to look at [population losses] almost as signals. They're telling us something about our future," Garber said. "This is a critical world problem." The Grauer's gorilla population has dropped from 17,000 in 1995 to just about 3,800 now, mostly from bushmeat hunting and mineral mining, the study found. (Ben Curtis/Associated Press) While there's hope that some species can be protected, many will disappear in the coming decades, said co-author Eduardo Fernandez-Duque of Yale University. Emory University primate expert Frans de Waal, who wasn't part of the study, called the work "very detailed and timely and unfortunately correct." "Primate populations are clearly moving in the wrong direction," he said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Two-thirds of wildlife will disappear by 2020, WWF says Q&A Is the world running out of wilderness? PHOTOS West Coast orca 'Class of 2015' a sign of hope for endangered species Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca