https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/evidence-of-water-on-the-moon-study-says-1.730077
Evidence of water on the moon, study says | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Evidence of water on the moon, study says Social Sharing Technology & Science Evidence of water on the moon, study says U.S. researchers have found evidence of water on the moon by studying glass pebbles picked up by NASA astronauts more than 30 years ago. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 10, 2008 1:45 PM ET | Last Updated: July 10, 2008 U.S. researchers have found evidence of water on the moon by studying glass pebbles picked up by NASA astronauts more than 30 years ago. And they speculate there may still be ice in the shaded craters at the moon's poles. "What is important for me is it’s telling me something about the origin of the moon and the Earth and the presence of water at very early times," Alberto Saal, lead researcher and assistant professor of geological sciences at Brown University, said in a news release Thursday. The study, published in Nature on Thursday, means "the presence of water must be considered in models constraining the moon's formation and its thermal and chemical evolution," the abstract said. Scientists have long thought there may have been water on the moon, but have not been able to find evidence until now. The researchers studied lunar magmas ejected from "fire fountains" on to the surface of the moon more than three billion years ago. Most of the water in the magma vaporized into space, but traces may have drifted to the moon's cold poles, where they could remain as ice in shadowed craters. The glass beads from the magmas were bombarded with a stream of ions, and then the team analyzed the secondary ions emitted with a mass spectrometer. "We developed a way to detect as little as five parts per million of water," said researcher Erik H. Hauri from the Carnegie Institution for Science. "We were really surprised to find a whole lot more in these tiny glass beads, up to 46 parts per million." The scientists could not determine the precise water content of the magma, but numerical modelling suggests it contained 745 parts per million. That's similar to the water in primitive magmas that erupted on the Earth’s sea floor. "This suggests the very intriguing possibility that the moon’s interior might have contained just as much water as the Earth’s depleted upper mantle," Hauri said. The researchers plan further studies of the volcanic glasses. NASA plans new moon mission NASA, which funded the research, is planning to send the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter to the moon late this year. The unmanned flight will look for evidence of water and landing sites, among other things. NASA sent a spacecraft called the Lunar Prospector to check for water on the moon in 1998, but the mission came up dry. The other researchers who worked on the Nature study were professors Reid Cooper and Malcolm Rutherford and graduate student Mauro Lo Cascio from Brown, and James Van Orman from Case Western Reserve University. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Moon crash-landing didn't produce water vapour External Links Abstract of the article in Nature Abstract of the article in Nature Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca