https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/atlantis-in-orbit-en-route-to-repair-hubble-1.803581
Atlantis in orbit en route to repair Hubble | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Atlantis in orbit en route to repair Hubble Social Sharing Technology & Science Atlantis in orbit en route to repair Hubble Astronauts aboard Atlantis on Tuesday plan to inspect the spaceship and prepare for Wednesday's long-anticipated rendezvous with the Hubble Space Telescope. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: May 12, 2009 9:20 AM ET | Last Updated: May 12, 2009 A day after their space shuttle successfully launched into orbit, astronauts aboard Atlantis on Tuesday plan to inspect the spaceship and prepare for Wednesday's long-anticipated rendezvous with the Hubble Space Telescope. Atlantis launched from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida Monday in what NASA called a "picture-perfect liftoff," carrying with it the seven-person crew and a cargo hold full of replacement parts for the 19-year-old orbiting observatory. Hubble has been repaired on four other occasions, but hasn't had a visit since 2002, so many of its parts have either stopped working or are in need of an upgrade. During the 11-day mission, the astronauts will replace batteries, gyroscopes, cameras and a data-handling unit and fix other equipment. NASA hopes the mission will keep Hubble running another five to 10 years. On Tuesday, in advance of its arrival, the crew of Atlantis will inspect the shuttle's heat shield, using Atlantis' Canadarm and orbiter boom extension to check out the spacecraft's underside and leading edges of its wings. The inspection is standard procedure for NASA shuttles, particularly since the 2003 Columbia disaster, when seven astronauts died when their shuttle burned up during re-entry into the atmosphere. It will take on added importance, however, since the shuttle will be arriving at Hubble and not the safer confines of the International Space Station. Should NASA determine that Atlantis is unable to return to Earth safely, the space shuttle Endeavour is on standby to launch on a rescue mission should it be required. It is the first time NASA has taken such a precaution. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Hubble to get final fix in complex 11-day mission Audio: Quirks & Quarks tribute to the Hubble space telescope (Air date May 9, 2009) Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca