https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/india-lands-probe-on-moon-1.732717
India lands probe on moon | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news India lands probe on moon Social Sharing Technology & Science India lands probe on moon An unmanned Indian probe landed on the moon Friday and started sending images, marking another milestone for the country's 45-year-old space program. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Nov 14, 2008 12:45 PM ET | Last Updated: November 14, 2008 An unmanned Indian probe landed on the moon Friday and started sending images, marking another milestone for the country's 45-year-old space program. The Indian Space Research Organization announced Friday that the Moon Impact Probe, or MIP, successfully landed on a crater in the moon's south pole. The probe, with the Indian flag painted on its four outer panes, landed at 8:34 p.m. Bangalore time, or 10:04 a.m. ET, after it was ejected by Chandrayaan-1, the unmanned spacecraft that has been orbiting the moon at an altitude of about 100 kilometres since Wednesday. The 35-kilogram probe carries three scientific instruments: a radar altimeter to keep track of the probe's altitude as it made its descent, a video imaging system to take pictures once on the surface and a mass spectrometer to identify the particles the lander kicks up when it lands. The primary objective of the MIP is to demonstrate the technologies required for landing a probe at a desired location on the moon, according to the ISRO. First mission beyond Earth's orbit Chandrayaan-1, launched Oct. 22, is India's first mission beyond Earth's orbit. The European Space Agency, Bulgaria and the U.S. have joined the ISRO in the project. The spacecraft, which cost 3.86 billion rupees ($94.4 million), will orbit the moon on a two-year mission. India is the third Asian country to send an unmanned mission into lunar orbit, as Japan and China both successfully launched lunar probes in 2007. The United States, Europe and the former Soviet Union have also sent probes that have orbited or landed on the moon, while the U.S. is the only nation to successfully land a manned spacecraft on the moon. India has successfully launched 16 satellites, either from their own launch pads or piggybacked on U.S., Soviet or European shuttles or rockets, but its homegrown space exploration program is just beginning. Wednesday's launch was the first step of the country's long-term ambitions to conduct a manned moon mission by 2020. India also has announced plans for the launch of Chandrayaan-2 — which is expected to land a rover on the moon by 2012 — and also a manned space mission by 2015 using Indian systems and technology. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Indian moon probe nears lunar orbit India launches unmanned moon mission India plans to blast astronaut into space External Links Indian Space Research Organization Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca