http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/el-nino-forecast-suggests-next-winter-will-be-warm-1.2619191
El Nino forecast suggests next winter will be warm | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news El Nino forecast suggests next winter will be warm Social Sharing Technology & Science El Nino forecast suggests next winter will be warm Good news: Next winter won't be nearly as cold and snowy as the one we just endured, climatologists predict. Social Sharing NOAA says an El Nino appears to be building on Pacific Ocean CBC News · Posted: Apr 23, 2014 12:40 PM ET | Last Updated: April 23, 2014 This winter, many parts of the world had an unusually cold and snowy winter. But next winter, El Nino is expected to bring more warm spells than cold spells. (CBC) comments If the snow-shovelling marathons and constant cold weather alerts wore you down this winter, you'll be happy to hear this: Climatologists are predicting that next winter will probably be a warm one. That's because an El Nino with the tendency to send warm breezes toward North America appears to be building in the Pacific Ocean, reports the Climate Prediction Center at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). Many Canadians will find that a welcome change after an unusually cold and snowy winter, blamed in part on the weakening of a polar vortex spinning above the North Pole. Graphic: What is a polar vortex? El Nino is the name given to a short-term climate disruption cause by unusually high temperatures on the surface of the Pacific Ocean near the equator. Learn more about El Nino and La Nina "Sometimes it means a pretty calm and benign kind of winter," said Dave Phillips, a senior climatologist with Environment Canada, in an interview with CBC's Calgary Eyeopener. Phillips said the main effects tend to be felt in Canada in the form of a shorter winter "that tends to have more warm spells than cold spells." For example, the El Nino of 1997 and 1998 produced the sixth warmest winter in Canada in 66 years. "So if it performs like that one, we won't be shovelling and bundling up as much as we did this past winter." According to the most recent El Nino forecast from NOAA, from mid-March to mid-April, sea surface temperatures were higher than average above most of the equatorial Pacific. Phillips said trade winds that generally blow from east to west are beginning to slacken and may be readying to switch direction. He added, "These are the precursors for the emergence of El Nino." According to NOAA, many models are now predicting an El Nino sometime during the summer or fall. "Despite this greater model consensus," the agency cautioned, "there remains considerable uncertainty as to when El Nino will develop and how strong it may become." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Extreme El Nino weather to double in frequency, study says El Nino, La Nina and weather woes Cold snaps result of global warming, study says Cold weather isn't going away, forecasters warn March weather will be colder than usual, forecasters say External Links NOAA's El Nino page Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca