https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/nasa-assembles-new-rocket-1.792596
NASA assembles new rocket | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news NASA assembles new rocket Social Sharing Technology & Science NASA assembles new rocket NASA has completed the assembly of its Ares I-X rocket, the first new launch system dedicated to manned spaceflight in a quarter of a century. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Aug 17, 2009 11:22 AM ET | Last Updated: August 17, 2009 NASA has completed the assembly of its Ares I-X rocket, the first new launch system dedicated to manned spaceflight in a quarter of a century. An important step in the ambitious U.S. manned space program, the Ares I-X is the first version of a series of rockets set to carry the U.S. space agency's next-generation Orion spacecraft after the space shuttle fleet is retired in 2010. The Orion-Ares combination is not due to launch until 2015 at the earliest. However a report from the U.S. Human Space Flight Plans committee issued on Friday said federal budget cuts have made impossible the agency's current plans to land astronauts on the moon by 2020. The committee said the project's 10-year, $108 billion US budget has been shaved by $30 billion in the most recent federal budget, putting the moon mission plans in jeopardy. First test due in October The announcement of the milestone assembly, also on Friday, was strangely muted for NASA, with the news coming in a blog post on NASA's website and an announcement through the social messaging service Twitter. The 98-metre Ares rocket is standing in the vehicle assembly building at Kennedy Space Center. NASA has scheduled the first test flight of the Ares I-X rocket for late October. Before being launched, the rocket will be tested to ensure it can endure the strain of launch and ascent. On Monday NASA also launched a rocket carrying an inflatable landing technology for use in future missions. The mushroom-shaped Inflatable Re-entry Vehicle Experiment uses a lightweight inflatable shell to help provide a landing module add more drag as it enters the atmosphere of a planet like Mars. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Rocket launch signals NASA's return to moon New moon rocket passes NASA review Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca