https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/honeybee-hives-stung-by-parasites-1.370407
Honeybee hives stung by parasites | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Honeybee hives stung by parasites Social Sharing Technology & Science Honeybee hives stung by parasites Parasitic mite damaging Quebec's honeybee colonies, raising concerns for fruit and vegetable producers who depend on the pollinators. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: May 02, 2003 5:02 PM ET | Last Updated: May 2, 2003 A tiny parasite is ravaging Quebec's honeybee population, causing huge problems for beekeepers and producers who depend on the pollinators. It looks like two mites are to blame. The tracheal mite is a longstanding pest that lives in the windpipe of honeybees. The varroa mite lives on the outside of bees and is very destructive to the bees' reproductive cycle. Quebec officials are still gathering information on the problem. So far it looks like producers in the hardest-hit areas have almost been wiped out. Between 30 and 50 per cent of hives in affected areas have been destroyed, according to Dr. Brian Jamieson, senior veterinary officer with the Canadian Food Inspection Agency in Ottawa. Bee producers say honey production could be down significantly in Quebec, Ontario and New Brunswick this year because of the mites. FROM JUNE 9, 2001: Canada's orchards bruised by lack of bees The bees also play a key role as pollinators, and are fundamental to pollinating blueberries in Quebec, as well as certain types of apples and other fruits and vegetables. Since the tracheal mite came into Canada in the mid 1980s, the beekeeping industry has been using a variety of husbandry techniques and treatments to live with it. Varroa mites on the other hand have become resistant to treatment in six provinces, Jamieson told CBC Radio's As It Happens. Health Canada has approved an insecticide that can be applied to bees when they are not producing honey, but is was not used in Quebec last fall. FROM AUGUST 13, 1999: Russian bees recruited for mite battle The varroa mite populations built up and overwhelmed bee colonies in Quebec. Bringing in replacement bees from the U.S. won't help; Canada closed its border to bee imports in 1988 to prevent the introduction of new diseases. Scientists are trying to come up with new treatments and husbandry techniques to keep one step ahead of the mites. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca