https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/antarctic-ice-bridge-snaps-1.813290
Antarctic ice bridge snaps | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Antarctic ice bridge snaps Social Sharing Technology & Science Antarctic ice bridge snaps An ice bridge connecting a vast Antarctic ice shelf to two islands shattered on Saturday. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Apr 05, 2009 12:12 PM ET | Last Updated: April 5, 2009 An ice bridge connecting a vast Antarctic ice shelf to two islands shattered on Saturday. Satellite images from the European Space Agency show a 40-kilometre-long strip of ice, linking the Charcot and Latady islands to the Wilkins Ice Shelf, snapped at its narrowest point. Scientists fear the collapse will allow ocean currents to wash away more and more of the shelf. They speculate the northern half of the shelf, which is roughly the size of Jamaica, could eventually break free of the Antarctic Peninsula and become a giant iceberg. The Wilkins Ice Shelf has been moving since the 1990s, but experts say this is the first time one of the links apparently keeping it in place has crumbled. They suspect climate change is responsible for the collapse of the bridge. David Vaughan, an expert in glaciers with the British Antarctic Survey (BAS), said the bridge was intact two days ago. "It's amazing how the ice has ruptured," he told the Reuters news agency. "We've waited a long time to see this." Last week, U.S. and British scientists reported that Antarctica's Wordie Ice Shelf, which has been retreating in the past 40 years, is now completely gone and more than 8,500 square kilometres have broken off from the Larsen Ice Shelf since 1986. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Antarctica warming after all, study says Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca