https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/astronauts-leave-shuttle-to-replace-hubble-batteries-gyroscopes-1.790354
Astronauts leave shuttle to replace Hubble batteries, gyroscopes | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Astronauts leave shuttle to replace Hubble batteries, gyroscopes Social Sharing Technology & Science Astronauts leave shuttle to replace Hubble batteries, gyroscopes Atlantis astronauts began the second spacewalk of their mission to repair the Hubble Space Telescope, this time with the aim of replacing the orbiting observatory's gyroscopes and batteries. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: May 15, 2009 9:36 AM ET | Last Updated: May 15, 2009 Atlantis astronauts have begun the second spacewalk of their mission to repair the Hubble Space Telescope, this time with the aim of replacing the orbiting observatory's gyroscopes and batteries. U.S. astronauts Mike Massimino and Mike Good left the shuttle at 8:49 a.m. ET and will attempt to install six new gyroscopes to help keep the telescope pointing in the right direction. Three of the gyroscopes on the telescope are broken, making the replacement of all the units a priority to keep Hubble functioning. Massimino and Good will also replace the telescope's original batteries, which have been in space now for 19 years, with a new set. The spacewalk is scheduled to last about six and a half hours. On Thursday, astronauts John Grunsfeld and Andrew Feustel installed Hubble's new camera and a data handling unit to replace one that had malfunctioned last fall. Hubble has provided spectacular imagery and helped astronomers gain new insight into black holes, star formation and the early universe. But it had been seven years since the last repair of the telescope, and several of its instruments have failed or were in need of an upgrade. NASA hopes the mission will keep Hubble running another five to 10 years. The crew of Atlantis also received good news on Thursday evening when the shuttle was cleared for re-entry after a thorough review of its heat shield turned up no issues. Early Friday morning, astronaut Megan McArthur manoeuvred the shuttle's Canadarm and its camera to do a quick survey of some tiles on the ship's underbelly that were missed during an earlier inspection, but NASA said the survey was not connected to any known issues. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Spacewalking astronauts install new camera on Hubble telescope Atlantis takes hold of Hubble telescope Hubble to get final fix in complex 11-day mission Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca