https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/greenland-glaciers-melting-at-faster-pace-study-1.595138
Greenland glaciers melting at faster pace: study | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Greenland glaciers melting at faster pace: study Social Sharing Technology & Science Greenland glaciers melting at faster pace: study An analysis of satellite data suggests Greenland's southern glaciers are melting faster than thought, meaning estimates of sea-level rise from the glaciers could be too low, scientists say. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Feb 16, 2006 1:53 PM ET | Last Updated: February 16, 2006 Greenland's glaciers are melting faster than thought, meaning estimates of sea-level rise could be too low, scientists warn. Eric Rignot of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., and Pannir Kanagaratnam of the University of Kansas included recent changes in glacier velocity in estimates of overall ice loss in Greenland. Their findings were presented on Thursday at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in St. Louis, Mo., and appear in Friday's issue of the journal Science. "The behaviour of the glaciers that dump ice into the sea is the most important aspect of understanding how an ice sheet will evolve in a changing climate," Rignot said in a statement. "It takes a long time to build and melt an ice sheet, but glaciers can react quickly to temperature changes." If all of the ice on Greenland melted, it could raise sea levels seven metres. Most researchers say that would take at least 1,000 years, but, they add even half a metre could devastate low-lying countries. "I would say the ice sheet could evolve in a very major way on the time scale of 100 years rather than 1,000 years," said Rignot. "This is something which is not so far from our lifetime." Climate researchers have previously said rising sea levels could increase storm surges and affect people living in coastal regions. Rignot and Kanagaratnam report that when faster glacier speeds are taken into account, Greenland contributes about 0.5 millimetres per year to global sea-level rise, which currently stands at three millimetres per year. "This change, combined with increased melting, suggests that existing estimates of future sea level rise are too low," Julian Dowdeswell of the Scott Polar Research Institute at Britain's Cambridge University wrote in a commentary in the journal. Ice loss due to glacier flow increased from 50 cubic kilometres of ice loss per year in 1996 to 150 cubic kilometres of ice loss annually in 2005, the team said. Warmer temperatures may increase the amount of melt water reaching the ice, lubricating its slide towards the Atlantic, the researchers propose. Increasing the amount of snowfall in Greenland is the only way to stem the loss of ice, Dowdeswell said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Greenland Ice Sheet Dynamics, Science Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca