https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/nasa-s-moon-crash-reveals-lots-of-water-1.788340
NASA's moon crash reveals 'lots of water' | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news NASA's moon crash reveals 'lots of water' Social Sharing Technology & Science NASA's moon crash reveals 'lots of water' NASA announced it found a 'significant amount' of water on the moon as a result of the LCROSS impact last month. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Nov 13, 2009 12:21 PM ET | Last Updated: November 13, 2009 NASA has announced that it found a "significant amount" of water on the moon as a result of the LCROSS impact last month. Anthony Colaprete, a scientist on the project, estimated there were about 100 litres of water in the crater where the LCROSS spacecraft hit the moon on Oct. 9. Colaprete presented some of NASA's data from the spacecraft's instruments, including spectrometer readings that strongly suggest the presence of water. "Indeed, yes, we found water," Colaprete said at a news conference Friday. "There's not just water, but lots of water." NASA scientists said the lunar crater they hit was actually wetter than some of the driest deserts on Earth. NASA's discovery is the result of intentionally crashing the Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite into the moon and analyzing the explosion and crater that resulted. There were actually two impacts, the first coming when a rocket stage that had carried a lunar probe hit the crater Cabeus, near the moon's south pole, creating a small crater of its own. The LCROSS satellite observed the impact, as did the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter, the Hubble Space Telescope, three other Earth-orbiting satellites, and telescopes in the western U.S. and Hawaii. Then, the satellite itself hit the moon. The two impacts created a crater between 20 and 30 metres across, and a plume between 10 and 12 kilometres across. Colaprete said vapour from the explosion was detected as high as 20 kilometres above the moon's surface. The impact didn't result in an explosion that was immediately visible, but NASA said it received a great deal of information from the experiment. 'Not your father’s moon' "We are ecstatic," Colaprete said in a NASA statement. "Multiple lines of evidence show water was present in both the high angle vapour plume and the ejecta curtain created by the LCROSS Centaur impact. "The concentration and distribution of water and other substances requires further analysis, but it is safe to say Cabeus holds water." Colaprete said he wasn't sure what the other substances might be, because the mission's focus was on finding water, but they could include carbon dioxide, methane, ethanol or methanol. "All those are possibilities, but we really need to do the work to see what fits best," Colaprete said. The researchers also saw sodium in the impact. All of these chemicals are seen in other bodies in space, such as comets, which could indicate the source of the moon's water. The water on the moon could also come from solar wind or the Earth, or it could be that the water's always been there, NASA said. Colaprete said some of these chemicals were found on moon rocks retrieved by Apollo astronauts, but their presence was explained away as contamination from the Earth. He said the possibility of contamination from the rocket stage or LCROSS itself has been ruled out. The NASA researchers said water on the moon could be used by a future human settlement there, not just for drinking and bathing, but as a component for rocket fuel, if manned missions are ever launched from the moon. "The moon still has many secrets," said Greg Delory, a senior fellow at the Space Sciences Laboratory for Integrative Planetary Sciences at the University of California, Berkeley. Delory, who was not on the LCROSS team, said the mission's data "is painting a really surprising new picture of the moon. This is not your father’s moon. Rather than a dead and unchanging world, it could be a dynamic and interesting one." The new data from LCROSS appears to agree with a finding from India's Chandrayaan-1 lunar satellite, which in August found a chemical signature for water all over the moon's surface. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories No big flash from NASA's moon crash Water traces found in moon's dirt Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca