http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/dreadnoughtus-may-be-the-biggest-dinosaur-ever-1.2755590
Dreadnoughtus may be the biggest dinosaur ever | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Dreadnoughtus may be the biggest dinosaur ever Social Sharing Technology & Science Dreadnoughtus may be the biggest dinosaur ever Scientists have discovered the fossil remains of a dinosaur more massive than a Boeing 737-900 jet plane that was possibly the biggest land animal that ever lived. Social Sharing At 59 tonnes, plant-eating dinosaur had 'the largest reliably calculable weight' of any known land animal Thomson Reuters · Posted: Sep 04, 2014 12:04 PM ET | Last Updated: September 9, 2014 The dinosaur Dreadnoughtus weighed 59,300 kilograms and measured 26 metres long. It was an herbivore that likely spent much of its life eating massive quantities of plants to maintain its enormous body size. (Mark A. Klingler/Carnegie Museum of Natural History/The Associated Press) comments The word big does not do justice to a massive, long-necked dinosaur that shook the Earth in Argentina about 77 million years ago. Try colossal, enormous, gargantuan and stupendous — and you might come close to an accurate description of this behemoth, known to scientists as Dreadnoughtus schrani. We thought it was time a plant-eating dinosaur got a badass name. - Matt Lamanna, Carnegie Museum of Natural History Scientists on Thursday announced the discovery in southern Patagonia of remarkably complete and well-preserved fossil remains of the dinosaur, which weighed 59,300 kilograms and measured 26 metres long with a neck 11.3 metres long and a tail 8.7 metres long. Paleontologist Kenneth Lacovara of Drexel University in Philadelphia, who discovered the dinosaur and led the effort for its excavation and analysis, said the scientists calculated its weight on the basis of the bones in its upper arm and thigh. 7 times more massive than T. rex Dreadnoughtus weighed more than an adult sperm whale or a herd of African elephants. Tipping the scales at seven times as much as the dinosaur T. rex, it made the North American menace that also lived during the Cretaceous Period look puny. Scientists found 45 per cent of the skeleton of Dreadnoughtus, including most of the important bones. Drexeul University paleontologist Kenneth Lacovara poses here with the dinosaur's right tibia or shin-bone. (Kenneth Lacovara ) Dreadnoughtus had "the largest reliably calculable weight" of any known land animal — dinosaur or otherwise, Lacovara said. Another giant Argentine dinosaur, Argentinosaurus, might have been larger, he said, but its scant remains do not allow a reliable weight estimate. Another group of scientists in May had cited Argentinosaurus, with an estimated weight of 82,107 kilograms, as the largest dinosaur. Titanosaur, possibly biggest dinosaur ever, unearthed in Argentina While strictly a vegetarian, Dreadnoughtus was not timid. With its size and a tail that could have clobbered any predator foolish enough to attack it, it probably had nothing to fear from even the largest meat-eating dinosaurs. Its name reflects that. "We decided on Dreadnoughtus — meaning 'fearer of nothing' — because when you're as big as this thing was, you're probably not afraid of too much," said one of the researchers, Matt Lamanna of the Carnegie Museum of Natural History in Pittsburgh. "Not to mention we thought it was time a plant-eating dinosaur got a badass name. Those are usually reserved for the meat-eaters," said Lamanna, a paleontologist. The dinosaur's tail alone was 8.7 metres long and could have clobbered any predator foolish enough to attack it. (Kenneth Lacovara) Lacovara said the name also was a nod to the powerful battleships called dreadnoughts, dating from the turn of the last century, that were designed to be impervious to attack. Dreadnoughtus probably spent its days munching massive quantities of plants to fuel its enormous body. It was a member of a group of dinosaurs called titanosaurs that are thought to have been the largest dinosaurs that ever lived. Argentinosaurus also was a titanosaur. Most titanosaurs are known only from fragmentary remains, but the scientists found 45 per cent of the skeleton of Dreadnoughtus, including most of the important bones. Lamanna called it "a treasure trove of information on one of the most successful, but least understood, dinosaur groups of all." Biggest was not even fully grown The researchers found two specimens of Dreadnoughtus side by side — one larger than the other, but the scary thought is that they believe the larger one was not even fully grown. "It appears that both individuals died and were buried rapidly after a river flooded and broke through its natural levee, turning the ground into a soupy mixture of sand, mud and water," Lacovara said. To attack a healthy adult Dreadnoughtus, a solitary predator "would have to have been suicidal," Lamanna said. "It's conceivable that a pack of these predators could take down a sick or old Dreadnoughtus, but a single carnivore versus a 'Dread' would be a drubbing." The study appears in the Nature journal Scientific Reports. Summary of the paper in Scientific Reports Dreadnoughtus was more massive than a Boeing 737-900 jet plane. (Scientific Reports) CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories As It Happens interview with palaeontologist Kenneth Lacovara Video Titanosaur, possibly biggest dinosaur ever, unearthed in Argentina Dinosaur species that evolved into birds survived by shrinking Scientists unearth huge dinosaur in Argentina External Links Summary of the paper in Scientific Reports Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca