https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/dinosaurs-were-warm-blooded-runners-skeletons-hint-1.797989
Dinosaurs were warm-blooded runners, skeletons hint | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Dinosaurs were warm-blooded runners, skeletons hint Social Sharing Technology & Science Dinosaurs were warm-blooded runners, skeletons hint New research has added strength to the theory that dinosaurs were warm-blooded like mammals and birds, not cold-blooded like reptiles. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Nov 12, 2009 4:28 PM ET | Last Updated: November 12, 2009 New research has added strength to the theory that dinosaurs were warm-blooded like mammals and birds, not cold-blooded like reptiles. Herman Pontzer of Washington University in St. Louis used data from fossil dinosaur skeletons and the energy needs of modern-day animals to conclude that dinosaurs were probably warm-blooded. Pontzer's previous work found that an animal's energy cost for walking and running was closely associated with leg length for a wide variety of land animals. He found the distance from an animal's hip joint to the ground could predict with 98 per cent accuracy the energy cost of the animal's movements. Pontzer and his team measured leg bone lengths from 14 dinosaur species, both those that walked on all fours and bipedal dinosaurs like Archaeopteryx and Tyrannosaurus rex. The researchers also performed more complex calculations to estimate the leg muscle volume the dinosaurs would have needed to move around. Both sets of calculations suggested that dinosaurs were warm-blooded and, therefore, active and acrobatic animals. "It's always possible that something that lived a long time ago … had a wildly different physiology than anything we've seen today," said Pontzer. "But we find that pretty unlikely and really I think the only assumption we're making is that physics worked the same way in the time of the dinosaurs as it does today." If dinosaurs were warm-blooded, it suggests that they could have lived in colder climates than modern-day reptiles can, such as mountain ranges and polar climates. Being warm-blooded, or endothermic, comes at a cost, though. Endothermic animals need to eat a lot more than cold-blooded, or ectothermic, animals do to keep their metabolisms going. Evolution pushed back millions of years The research, published this week in the journal Public Library of Science ONE, isn't the final word on the thermodynamics of dinosaurs, but it does add fuel to the debate. "I'm sure the jury is still out and I don't expect that any one study is going to put the nail in the coffin," said Pontzer. In fact, when the researchers plotted endothermy on a dinosaur family tree, they found that it's possible that warm-bloodedness is the common ancestral trait for all dinosaurs, pushing back the evolution of endothermy by millions or years. "It suggests that warm-blooded metabolisms were probably prominent for a lot of species of dinosaurs," said Pontzer. With files from the Australian Broadcasting Corporation CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories CBC Radio's Quirks & Quarks: Interview with Herman Pontzer, Nov. 14. External Links PLoS ONE: Biomechanics of Running Indicates Endothermy in Bipedal Dinosaurs Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca