http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/high-arctic-research-station-saved-by-new-funding-1.1360779
High Arctic research station saved by new funding | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news High Arctic research station saved by new funding Social Sharing Technology & Science High Arctic research station saved by new funding Canada's northernmost research lab won't have to shut down after all and will be able to resume year-round operations, with the help of a new grant from the federal government. Social Sharing Eureka's PEARL gets $5M over 5 years CBC News · Posted: May 17, 2013 3:05 PM ET | Last Updated: May 17, 2013 The Polar Environment Atmospheric Research Laboratory is located at Eureka, Nunavut, on Ellesmere Island, at a latitude of 80 degrees north. (CANDAC) Canada's northernmost research lab won't have to shut down after all and will be able to resume year-round operations, with the help of a new grant from the federal government. The Polar Environment Atmospheric Research Laboratory (PEARL) in Eureka, Nunavut, will receive $5 million over five years, Minister of State for Science and Technology Gary Goodyear announced Friday. "That's going to enable us to keep the station running in a good campaign mode for the whole period," said Jim Drummond, principal investigator for PEARL, in an interview on CBC Radio's As It Happens Friday. The High Arctic research station, located at a latitude of 80 degrees north, was among seven projects that will receive as much as $5 million each and a total of $32 million under the new Climate Change and Atmospheric Research (CCAR) program. "The Canadian taxpayers have put a lot of money into that facility and without this funding it would be sitting empty," said Western University geography professor Gordon McBean. "They’ve built up a strong research program so far and they should continue. So I’m quite pleased." COMING UP: Hear the full interview with Jim Drummond on As It Happens Friday at 6:30 p.m. PEARL, which has been tracking ozone depletion, air quality and climate change in the High Arctic since 2005, and contributes data to several international environmental monitoring projects, is run by an informal network of university researchers called the Canadian Network for Detection of Atmospheric Change. The network announced early in 2012 that the station would be forced to cease year-round operations at the end of April that year after being unable to secure the $1.5-million annual funding it needed to stay open all year. The station had been funded primarily by the Canadian Foundation for Climate and Atmospheric Sciences, a granting agent funded by the federal government from 2000 to 2010. In the 2011 budget, no money was allocated to CFCAS. Instead, $35 million over five years was budgeted for the CCAR program, but it had not yet started accepting applications for funding. The network had applied for other grants, but had been turned down for all of them. Drummond said PEARL did manage to get some minimal funding to keep the station running part-time over the past year. The recent partial shutdown means there are some gaps in the data, he told As It Happens host Carol Off, "but we think they are manageable." The research network has also fallen behind on the maintenance of the station and its equipment, Drummond added, but is trying to catch up before the fall. That way, the station will be able to take valuable measurements during the upcoming polar night — months of almost total darkness when very few scientific measurements are made in other parts of the Arctic. Key international role The possible closure of PEARL caused alarm within the scientific community because it is one of the northernmost research stations in the world and one of very few that contribute Arctic data to networks of research stations that collect similar data around the world. Drummond said that the Arctic environment is changing rapidly compared to other parts of the world and not having the data from PEARL "would mean we'd have some difficulty in trying to understand not just the Arctic, but also the rest of the planet." The federal government is building a new High Arctic research station in Cambridge Bay, Nunavut, but it will not be operational until 2017 and is located 1,300 kilometres south of Pearl – a difference in latitude that Drummond likened to that between Toronto and Atlanta, Ga. The other projects receiving new funding from CCAR include the: Network on Climate and Aerosols: Addressing Key Uncertainties in Remote Canadian Environments. Canadian Arctic GEOTRACES Program: Biogeochemical and Tracer Study of a Rapidly Changing Arctic Ocean. Canadian Sea Ice and Snow Evolution Network. Ventilation, Interactions and Transports Across the Labrador Sea. Canadian Network for Regional Climate and Weather Processes. Changing Cold Regions Network. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories COMING UP: Hear the full interview with Jim Drummond on As It Happens Friday at 6:30 p.m. Quirks blog: Government blind to benefits public sees in PEARL Arctic research High Arctic research station forced to close Canadians donate $10,000 to save Arctic research station External Links Goverment news release Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca