https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/last-shuttle-launch-may-be-delayed-by-weather-1.1052506
Last shuttle launch may be delayed by weather | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Last shuttle launch may be delayed by weather Social Sharing Technology & Science Last shuttle launch may be delayed by weather There's a 60 per cent chance that rain or thunderstorms will delay Friday's planned liftoff of space shuttle Atlantis. Social Sharing If Atlantis doesn't launch by Sunday, it will have to wait until July 16 The Associated Press · Posted: Jul 05, 2011 12:15 PM ET | Last Updated: July 5, 2011 NASA's last space shuttle launch this week may have to contend with lousy weather. There's a 60 per cent chance that rain or thunderstorms will delay Friday's planned liftoff of Atlantis, shuttle weather officer Kathy Winters said Tuesday. Friday's launch time is 11:26 a.m. ET. The countdown clocks were set to start ticking Tuesday afternoon. The four astronauts assigned to the 12-day flight arrived at Kennedy Space Center on Monday. 1 million spectators expected Atlantis will make one final supply run to the International Space Station before retiring. As many as one million spectators are expected to jam the Cape Canaveral area for the historic send-off. NASA test director Jeremy Graeber said the launch team is doing its best to put off any emotions associated with the end of the 30-year shuttle era, until Atlantis flies. "The team gets into the mode of this-is-launch-countdown, and that's really the focus that everybody has," Graeber told journalists. "The rest of the emotion that really comes with the end of the space shuttle program, I think will really kind of roll in as launch is completed." Graeber, for one, can't wait to take his seat in Launch Control. "It's a really cool job ... and get to do it one more time is a great feeling," he said. Atlantis is loaded with thousands of pounds of food, clothes, experiments and other supplies for the orbiting complex. NASA wants to stockpile a year's worth of provisions in case commercially sponsored cargo ships get delayed. The first such launch is targeted for later this year. NASA is under orders to get out of the Earth-to-orbit business and focus instead on trips to true outer space: an asteroid and Mars. This will be the 135th flight for the shuttle program and the 33rd for Atlantis, the last shuttle to be retired. Discovery was first in March, followed by Endeavour at the beginning of June. Each shuttle will head to a museum. NASA said it must launch Atlantis by Sunday — choosing the best two out of three days — otherwise it will have to wait until at least July 16. That's because of an unmanned rocket due to lift off next week. If the crowds are as huge as anticipated, NASA said it will try Friday and then probably wait until Sunday to give launch controllers enough time to deal with the heavy traffic and get some rest. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories PHOTO GALLERY: Space Shuttle Atlantis Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca