https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/fossil-egyptian-slicer-1.4080030
Fossil find reveals skunk-sized predator roamed Egypt 34 million years ago | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Fossil find reveals skunk-sized predator roamed Egypt 34 million years ago Social Sharing Technology & Science Fossil find reveals skunk-sized predator roamed Egypt 34 million years ago Scientists have discovered a small, skunk-sized mammalian carnivore with a fearsome set of teeth that likely preyed on human ancestors. Social Sharing Masrasector nananubis lived in swampy, marshy environment Tyler Choi · CBC · Posted: Apr 24, 2017 7:00 PM ET | Last Updated: April 24, 2017 A fossil sample and x-ray of Masrasector nananubis. (Matt Borths) Scientists have discovered a small, skunk-sized mammalian predator with a fearsome set of teeth that roamed what is now modern-day Egypt 34 million years ago. In a paper published in PLOS ONE, scientists detail Masrasector nananubis, a land-dweller with muscular legs like a Rottweiler. Masrasector translates to "the Egyptian slicer" and Nananubis comes from Anubis, Egyptian god of the afterlife and mummification depicted with a canine head. While Masrasector was known to science for decades, a recent dig in Egypt found several nearly complete skulls, jaws, and fragments of arm bones. New prehistoric bird species identified in Canadian Arctic 'A cross between a hallucinogenic dream and your worst nightmare': Rare dinosaur prints found in B.C. Researchers say the new find is a member of the now-extinct hyaenodont family, a group that superficially resembled hyenas. They were the apex predators in Africa following the extinction of the dinosaurs, says Matthew Borths, of Ohio University. Borths, one of the study authors, said in an interview with CBC News that hyaenodonts ranged in mass from "a weasel to a gigantic rhinoceros size." Swampy, marshy environment Unlike the bone-dry desert where it was found, Masrasector lived in a time when Egypt was a swampy, marshy environment resembling the Everglades of Florida. An expanding Mediterranean Sea split Africa from the Eurasian mainland, leading to "weird animals that evolved in isolation," said Borths. Some examples include an animal that resembled a cross between a hippopotamus and a pig, and ancient elephants that would look exotic today. Masrasector also came with an unexpected development. "It is part of a lineage of hyaenodonts that aren't specialized meat-eaters," says Borths. The teeth of Masrasector resembled the generalist type, teeth that can grind down both meat and vegetation. By comparing the teeth of Masrasector to animals like a mongoose or skunk; animals that mix in fruits and seeds with vertebrate prey, they concluded Masrasector was likely omnivorous. The remains of primates with distinctive teeth marks on the bones were also found at the site in Egypt's Fayum Depression, leading researchers to believe that Masrasector possibly preyed on the monkey-like ancestors of humans, along with mammals like hyraxes and large rodents. Carnivore questions The discovery of generalist teeth raises questions about the long-term survival and eventual disappearance of the hyaenodonts. Despite being successful predators that hunted in what is now Africa, Asia, Europe and North America as far back as 40 million years ago, they were eventually uprooted by the carnivorans, mammals that include today's dogs and cats, bears and seals. The extinction of Masrasector is especially puzzling, researchers say. Given it followed a diet that mixed in vegetation, researchers thought it would be expected to have had a better chance at survival. Borths suggests one possibility, saying Masrasector's muscular legs may not have been able to adapt as the African environment changed from swamps to grassland. He says the Masrasector find could have implications today, because carnivores tend to go extinct first in a food chain. "By understanding the extinction of a group like hyaenodont, we can understand the possible extinction of modern carnivores, and how to prevent it." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories New species of 'Spider-Man' worm-snail discovered Sketching science: Meet the fossil artist who reconstructs 'lost worlds' Researchers unearth fossils of giant otter in China External Links PLOS One Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca