https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/hottest-year-on-global-record-was-canada-s-coolest-in-18-years-1.2912998
Hottest year on global record was Canada's coolest in 18 years | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Hottest year on global record was Canada's coolest in 18 years Social Sharing Technology & Science Hottest year on global record was Canada's coolest in 18 years Last year broke another heat record, becoming the hottest since 1880. But did it feel that way to you? Probably not, since it was Canada's coolest in 18 years. Social Sharing Despite that, the country was 0.1 C warmer than 'average' Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Jan 16, 2015 3:49 PM ET | Last Updated: January 16, 2015 Winter, spring and summer were all colder than normal in Ontario and Quebec, and fall was just average in 2014, Environment Canada says. (Associated Press) comments Last year broke another global heat record, becoming the hottest since 1880. But did it feel that way to you? Probably not, since it was Canada's coolest in 18 years. NASA and the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) announced today that last year broke the global temperature record for the third time in a decade. 2014 was the hottest year in modern record Dave Phillips, senior climatologist with Environment Canada, acknowledges some of us might be surprised. "I think most Canadians are going to say, 'Huh?' We weren't that warm." NOAA reported many corners of the Earth experienced record heat last year, including most of Europe, the western U.S., part of interior South America and swaths of the Pacific, Atlantic and Indian oceans. But in Canada, it was our coolest year since 1996, Phillips said. Of course, that doesn't mean it was cooler than average. "It was tad warmer than normal in Canada, believe it or not," Phillips said. By a "tad," he means the average temperature across the country from December 2013 to November 2014 was 0.1 C warmer than the annual average since Canada started keeping nationwide records in 1947. Of course, most of the past two decades have been unusually warm, which is how it is possible for the coolest year in 18 years to be warmer than "average." On the other hand, parts of the country – especially Ontario and Quebec, where two-thirds of Canadians live – actually were cooler than average. No warm season in Ontario, Quebec "We didn't have one warm season – winter was colder than normal, spring was colder than normal, summer was colder than normal, and fall – well it was right on normal." However, that was counterbalanced by hotter than normal temperatures in British Columbia, the Arctic and Newfoundland and Labrador. Phillips said with seven per cent of the world's land mass, Canada is big enough to have a significant impact on the global average temperature. In 2014, it held the temperature back a bit. "If Canada had been warmer than normal, then my gosh – this would have broken the record by that much more." Around the globe, NOAA said 2014 averaged 14.58 C, 0.69 degrees above the 20th century average. Earth also broke NOAA records set in 2010 and 2005. The last time the Earth set an annual NOAA cold record was in 1911. With a file from The Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories 2014 was hottest year in modern record 'Hottest year' record likely for 2014 after warmest October September 2014 was the hottest on record Global heat record set in August 2014 Climate change impacts heat up UN talks in Lima How heat affects your body Climate change survey reveals Canadians' fears for future generations External Links NOAA news release NASA news release Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca