http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/october-2015-heat-record-1.3324761
October heat record smashed by 'incredible amount' | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news October heat record smashed by 'incredible amount' Social Sharing Technology & Science October heat record smashed by 'incredible amount' This October blew away previous records to become the hottest ever recorded, giving a boost to predictions that this year will be 'an all-time record-breaker' when it comes to the global temperature. Social Sharing 'This year is going to be an all-time record-breaker,' researcher predicts The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 18, 2015 2:19 PM ET | Last Updated: November 18, 2015 Beachgoers relax on Bondi beach during a hot spring day in Sydney, Australia, in October. Record heat was found in Australia, southern Asia, parts of western North America, much of central and southern Africa, most of Central America and northern South America during October, according to NOAA. (David Gray/Reuters) comments Even in a record-breaking hot year for Earth, October stood out as absurdly warm. The U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said that last month globally was 14.98 C. That's the hottest October on record by a fifth of a degree over the old mark, "an incredible amount" for weather records, said NOAA climate scientist Jessica Blunden. Temperatures in 2015 on track to be record 1 degree C hotter October's temperature was the most above-normal month in history. It was 0.98 degrees Celsius above the 20th-century average. This is just a new normal. - Jessica Blunden, NOAA "A complete blowout," said Jeffrey Sachs, director of Columbia University's Earth Institute. "This year is going to be an all-time record-breaker." This was the eighth month this year when a heat record was set, with only January and April not setting records. That's a record number of broken records in any year. Records go back to 1880. El Nino shares blame Blunden and other scientists blame a potent and strengthening El Nino on top of accelerating man-made global warming. "This is just a new normal," Blunden said. "I don't know what really else to call it." Strongest El Nino in 15 years playing out in 'uncharted territory,' WMO says Nearly every team that measures temperatures found that October 2015 was a record, including NASA, the Japanese Meteorological Agency, University of California at Berkeley and University of Alabama at Huntsville, which measures the upper air using satellites, Blunden said. Record heat was found in Australia, southern Asia, parts of western North America, much of central and southern Africa, most of Central America and northern South America, according to NOAA. It's also the hottest January through October for Earth on record, along with the hottest consecutive 12 months on record. Given that the El Nino continues to strengthen and how much warmer 2015 is than previous years, Blunden said "it is virtually just impossible that we will not break the record" for the hottest year. That record was set in 2014. Since the year 2000, global monthly heat records have been broken 32 times, yet the last time a monthly cold record was set was in 1916. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Strongest El Nino in 15 years playing out in 'uncharted territory,' WMO says Temperatures in 2015 on track to be record 1 degree C hotter September 2015 was hottest on record, breaking 7th monthly record this year External Links NOAA State of the Climate global analysis - October 2015 Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca