https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/paris-climate-deal-1.3836226
As Paris Agreement comes into effect, UN warns we are in 'a race against time' | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news As Paris Agreement comes into effect, UN warns we are in 'a race against time' Social Sharing Technology & Science As Paris Agreement comes into effect, UN warns we are in 'a race against time' A landmark global accord to combat climate change officially took effect on Friday, putting pressure on countries to take action to slash greenhouse gas emissions and limit global warming. Social Sharing Countries will look at ways to implement historic deal at upcoming climate talks in Morocco Thomson Reuters · Posted: Nov 04, 2016 9:07 AM ET | Last Updated: November 4, 2016 The Paris Agreement, which seeks to wean the world economy off fossil fuels in the second half of the century, comes into effect today. (Getty Images/iStockphoto) comments A landmark global accord to combat climate change officially took effect on Friday, putting pressure on countries to take action to slash greenhouse gas emissions and limit global warming. The 2015 Paris Agreement won swift backing last December by almost 200 countries including China, the United States and the European Union and has been described as the most complex global treaty since the Marrakesh trade agreement, signed in 1994. The accord passed a threshold on Oct. 5 of 55 nations accounting for more than 55 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions, allowing it to come into force 30 days later. UN report warns cuts promised in Paris deal not nearly enough Growing fears Trump presidency would scrap Paris deal "We remain in a race against time," UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said. "Now is the time to strengthen global resolve, do what science demands and seize the opportunity to build a safer, more sustainable world for all." A previously anticipated timeframe was given as 2020 but ratification was swift compared to other international treaties, showing strong international support. However, around 100 countries have yet to agree and much work needs to be done on the fine detail of the pact to ensure it is not watered down. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ParisAgreement?src=hash">#ParisAgreement</a> shows that the world understands the dangerous threats &amp; impacts of climate change - <a href="https://twitter.com/ErikSolheim">@ErikSolheim</a>: <a href="https://t.co/bJSSE9WEMN">https://t.co/bJSSE9WEMN</a> <a href="https://t.co/vY3h9g90r4">pic.twitter.com/vY3h9g90r4</a> &mdash;@UNEP "This is a moment to celebrate. It is also a moment to look ahead with sober assessment and renewed will over the task ahead," United Nations' climate chief Patricia Espinosa said in a statement. "In a short time — and certainly in the next 15 years — we need to see unprecedented reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and unequalled efforts to build societies that can resist rising climate impacts," she said. Report says countries not on track The Paris Agreement seeks to wean the world economy off fossil fuels in the second half of the century, limiting the rise in average world temperatures to "well below" 2.0 C above pre-industrial times. It also notes an ambition to limiting temperature rise even further to 1.5 degrees. Carbon dioxide levels reach highest point ever, likely for good The pact kicked off a rolling start in the Pacific region on Thursday, home to low-lying islands states which are in danger of rising sea levels. On the same day, the annual report of UN Environment analysed countries' current pledges for emission cuts and said they were not sufficient. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau signs the Paris Agreement on climate change at United Nations Headquarters in Manhattan, New York, U.S., April 22, 2016. (Mike Segar/Reuters) Even if emission-cutting pledges under the Paris agreement are fully implemented, predicted 2030 emissions could put the world on track for a temperature rise of 2.9 to 3.4 C this century, the report said. UN climate talks start Monday The latest round of UN climate talks begin on Monday in Marrakesh, Morocco, where representatives from countries will try to find ways to implement the agreement. The U.S. presidential election could also be a main focus of the talks in the first week if Republican candidate Donald Trump wins, as he has threatened to reject the accord. Environmental campaign groups, as well as some businesses, investors and academics said the meeting in Marrakesh must keep up the spirit of international support for climate action. "As the world heads into [the meeting] in Marrakesh, we must regain the sense of urgency we felt a year ago," World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim said. A global policy framework which favours low-carbon energy generation will also challenge traditional business models for power utilities and oil, gas and coal producers. "Hydrocarbon fuel consumption is in the firing line and energy sector impacts are being felt already, despite Paris Agreement targets not kicking in until the end of the decade," said Paul McConnell, research director for Global Trends at consultancy Wood Mackenzie. Report outlines climate change challenges on Canada's Arctic coast With files from CBC News CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Growing fears that a Trump presidency would scrap Paris climate deal Day before Paris deal comes into effect, UN report warns promised cuts not nearly enough 'Real climate leaders don't build pipelines,' say protesters occupying MP's office China goes from red-alert pollution to green energy Dene leaders want place at table at next month's UN climate change conference External Links UN Environment report Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca