http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/global-warming-means-normal-weather-expectations-must-change-often-un-says-1.2700920
Global warming means 'normal' weather expectations must change often, UN says | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Global warming means 'normal' weather expectations must change often, UN says Social Sharing Technology & Science Global warming means 'normal' weather expectations must change often, UN says The baseline for "normal" weather used by everyone from farmers to governments to plan ahead needs to be updated more frequently to account for the big shifts caused by global warming, the UN's World Meteorological Organization said on Wednesday. Social Sharing Existing baseline, based on the climate averages of 1961-90, is out of date Thomson Reuters · Posted: Jul 09, 2014 9:29 AM ET | Last Updated: July 9, 2014 Ice jam flooding like the kind that hit Sussex, N.B., in April is likely to be more prevalent in the future, says the province's latest report on climate change. The U.N. says the baseline for "normal" weather used by everyone from farmers to governments to plan ahead needs to be updated more frequently to account for the big shifts caused by global warming. (Connell Smith/CBC) The baseline for "normal" weather used by everyone from farmers to governments to plan ahead needs to be updated more frequently to account for the big shifts caused by global warming, the UN's World Meteorological Organization said on Wednesday. The WMO's Commission for Climatology believes rising temperatures and more heatwaves and heavy rains mean the existing baseline, based on the climate averages of 1961-90, is out of date as a guide, the WMO said in a statement. "For water resources, agriculture and energy, the old averages no longer reflect the current realities," Omar Baddour, head of the data management applications at the WMO, told Reuters. Read the full statement A government trying to decide where to build river flood defences or a hydroelectric dam based on average rainfall could be misled by the 1961-90 data, for example, while a farmer studying average temperatures might plant crops that wilt in warmer conditions, he said. Is extreme weather the new normal? Under current rules, the 1961-90 baseline is due to be updated in 2021, with the data from 1991-2020. The Commission for Climatology wants to see rolling updates every decade, making the current baseline 1981-2010 and the next period 1991-2020. Some weather services have already adopted new baselines, which just causes confusion, the WMO said. "Different researchers and weather services are using different baselines, which results in inconsistent comparisons," it said. Baddour said the WMO also wants to retain the 1961-90 benchmark to judge long-term trends in climate change. Last year, the UN's panel of climate scientists raised the probability that human activities, led by the use of fossil fuels, are the main cause of global warming to at least 95 percent from 90 in a previous assessment in 2007. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Climate change: May breaks global temperature record Climate change will cost big business dearly, report warns Tropical cyclones are expanding their path of destruction Climate change 'has moved firmly into the present,' U.S. report says Extreme weather cost Canada record $3.2B, insurers say Global warming dials up our risks, UN report says External Links World Meteorological Organization news release Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca