http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/story/2013/06/04/science-bird-migration-climate-mismatch-martin.html
Birds migrating at wrong time for warmer climate | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Birds migrating at wrong time for warmer climate Social Sharing Technology & Science Birds migrating at wrong time for warmer climate Some songbirds can't alter their migration schedule to take into account earlier, warmer springs as a result of climate change, and that could be deadly, Canadian researchers say. Social Sharing Purple martins too late to catch crucial spring peak in food supply, Canadian researchers find Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Jun 04, 2013 11:21 AM ET | Last Updated: June 4, 2013 The purple martins were tracked using a tiny geolocator attached to them via a little 'backpack.' (Nanette Mickle) Some songbirds can't alter their migration schedule to take into account earlier, warmer springs as a result of climate change, and that could be deadly, Canadian researchers say. The researchers, led by ecologist Kevin Fraser at York University in Toronto, reached their conclusion after tracking purple martins, members of the swallow family that range as far north as southern Canada, all along their spring migration route of more than 7,000 kilometres. The results of the study were published in the journal PLoS ONE. Fraser and his colleagues found that two populations of birds that their research team was tracking took off from their wintering grounds in Brazil's Amazon Basin for their breeding sites in the northeastern U.S. at the same time every year for five years in a row, no matter what the temperature was like at both their summer and winter homes. Record high spring temperatures at their breeding grounds in 2012 didn't break the pattern. "There wasn't really any difference in what they did in the really warm year compared to other years," said Fraser in a phone interview Monday afternoon from Texas, where he is in the process of tagging a southern population of purple martins. Fraser said that means the martins likely arrive at their breeding grounds "too late," after the spring population of the insects they eat has peaked and started to decline, and the reduced food supply could hamper their ability to breed successfully. Songbird populations falling Populations of many songbirds have fallen drastically in North America since the 1960s — more than 75 per cent in the case of some species, such as the rusty blackbird, the olive-sided flycatcher, the Canada warbler, the American black duck and the evening grosbeak. A variety of factors may play a role, including habitat destruction and climate change. Currently, purple martin populations are declining by three to four per cent per year in the northern part of their range, around the Great Lakes, said Fraser, a postdoctoral researcher working with Bridget Stutchbury, a York University ecology professor who co-authored the paper. Some scientists have suggested that an increasing mismatch between the birds' migration times and the start of spring may be to blame. European studies show insect populations have been peaking earlier and earlier each year, and that places where the peak happens earliest are where populations of migratory insect-eating birds called pied flycatchers were declining the most. The flycatchers did not appear to migrate earlier to compensate. Fraser and his team wanted to see if they could get more direct evidence about the timing of the spring migration of purple martins in relation to spring weather conditions all along their 7,300-kilometre migration route. Fraser said there is some evidence that certain weather patterns in the Amazon and the northeastern U.S. are correlated. He wanted to see if individual birds could respond to those cues, or perhaps change their migration speed in response to conditions along their route. Tracking backpack In order to find out, he and his colleagues captured purple martins at their breeding sites and attached tiny tracking devices to their backs using a little "backpack," starting in 2008. The devices log light levels, providing data about latitude from the timing of sunrise and sunset, and data about longitude from the timing of the solar noon, which varies with longitude. Studies show that the backpacks do not appear to affect the birds' ability to fly, breed or survive. In 2012, the researchers managed to recapture 52 purple martins that had been tagged in Erie, Penn., and Woodbridge, Va., and to retrieve the tracking devices, with their data. They then matched the tracking data with data from weather stations along the route to find out what conditions were like as the birds flew by, and compared it to data from previous years. Fraser said he was surprised to find that the birds did not seem to respond to temperatures or rainfall. "I thought there would have been some climate signal somewhere along the route," he said. "I thought ... that if they found warmer temperatures, they could pick up the pace a little bit." The findings suggest that individual purple martins can't compensate for short-term changes in the timing of spring, unlike species with shorter migrations, such as tree swallows. Fraser said purple martins and the dozen or so other songbirds in North America that migrate to very distant wintering sites "might be particularly at risk with changes in climate because they're further away and less likely to get the signals they might need of changes up north." Scientists expect that natural selection will eventually cause the birds to shift their migration times, but Fraser said that so far, that's happening too slowly. "It could take lots of generations of birds," he added, "and if they're declining at such a strong rate, 'Will that be too late?' is the question." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Wonky winter brings Arctic birds south, sparks early migration Quirks & Quarks: Kevin Fraser on the migration of the wood thrush Songbirds can fly 500 kilometres a day, even while carrying a backpack: study Songbird decline shows need to protect boreal forest, environmentalists say Killer cats take down billions of birds, report says External Links Full article in PLoS ONE Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca