https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/early-dinosaur-s-feathers-were-for-show-not-flight-1.743126
Early dinosaur's feathers were for show, not flight | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Early dinosaur's feathers were for show, not flight Social Sharing Technology & Science Early dinosaur's feathers were for show, not flight Paleontologists in China have discovered the fossils of a pigeon-sized feathered dinosaur that was bird-like in many ways, including that it possibly used its plummage to attract mates. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Oct 22, 2008 3:05 PM ET | Last Updated: October 30, 2008 Paleontologists in China have discovered the fossils of a pigeon-sized feathered dinosaur that was bird-like in many ways, including that it possibly used its plumage to attract mates. The remains of Epidexipteryx were found 90 per cent intact in Inner Mongolia's Nincheng County in northern China, the scientists wrote in the journal Nature on Wednesday. It likely lived in the middle to late Jurassic periods, or between 146 million and 176 million years ago. That would make it older than Archaeopteryx, the most commonly known dinosaur thought to be an ancestor of birds. Archaeopteryx lived 150 million to 155 million years ago. The tiny dinosaur weighed an estimated 164 grams and shared many features found in birds, but also appeared to be closely related to Oviraptorosaurs, a group of tiny dinosaurs with distinctive short, high skulls. The fossil also possessed a number of skeletal features unusual among dinosaurs, such as a particularly short pubis, one of the three bones forming the pelvis. The dinosaur lacked the contour feathers necessary for flight, although it had two pairs of elongated tail feathers, part of ornamental plumage in modern birds. The researchers suggest that as with today's birds, the elongated feathers would be used to send a variety of visual signals to other birds, including for courtship. Epidexipteryx is the oldest therapod — a group of bipedal dinosaurs that includes Tyrannosaurus rex — to possess "display" feathers, they said. The finding suggests display feathers may have appeared before feathers used to aid flight, they wrote. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Retired Alberta teacher honoured for dinosaur discovery Remains of giant bird-like dinosaur unveiled Feathered dinosaur finding won't fly, say scientists External Links Nature Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca