https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/dinosaur-discovery-named-after-alberta-rancher-1.671845
Dinosaur discovery named after Alberta rancher | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Dinosaur discovery named after Alberta rancher Social Sharing Technology & Science Dinosaur discovery named after Alberta rancher A recently discovered species of dinosaur has been named in honour of an Alberta rancher in recognition of his efforts to help fossil hunters. Social Sharing The Canadian Press · Posted: Mar 05, 2007 9:42 AM ET | Last Updated: March 5, 2007 A recently discovered species of dinosaur has been named in honour of an Alberta rancher in recognition of his efforts to help fossil hunters. News of the discovery, Albertaceratops nesmoi, was published in this month's Journal of Paleontology by Michael Ryan, curator of vertebrate paleontology for the Cleveland Museum of Natural History. Ryan was a graduate student at the University of Calgary and was camping on Cecil Nesmo's property when he dug up the fossil six years ago. "It's quite an honour for me," said Nesmo, 62, who's lived for 58 years on a ranch near Manyberries, a small town about 290 kilometres southeast of Calgary. Ryan said the large, plant-eating reptile roamed the earth some 78 million years ago. It was as heavy as a half-tonne pickup, he said, with horns as thick as a human arm. "If you thought of the largest bull you could think of …that's probably the size range this animal was like," said Ryan. University of Pennsylvania paleontologist Peter Dodd said the discovery provides an important evolutionary link in the dinosaur family known as centrosaurs, which had horns and large bony frills covering their necks. "It was sort of the grandfather or great-uncle of the really diverse horned dinosaurs that came after it,"Dodd said. The oldest known horned dinosaur in North America is called Zuniceratops. It lived 12 million years beforeRyan's find and had large horns. That makes Albertaceratops nesmoi an intermediate between older forms with large horns, and the small-horned relatives that followed, said Utah paleontologist Jim Kirkland, who, with Douglas Wolfe, identified Zuniceratops in New Mexico in 1998. Nesmo said his ranch has been known for decades as a rich area for fossils, noting that he can remember researchers visiting it when he was just four years old. "When we find good specimens, we always direct the right people to it," Nesmo said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Giant dinosaur bones found in Spain Dinosaur footprints discovered in B.C. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca