http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/global-heat-record-set-in-august-2014-1.2770506
Global heat record set in August 2014 | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Global heat record set in August 2014 Social Sharing Technology & Science Global heat record set in August 2014 This August broke records for the hottest August since global temperature records began in 1880, despite cool summer temperatures in parts of Canada. Social Sharing Sea surface temperature broke record set earlier this year CBC News · Posted: Sep 18, 2014 2:23 PM ET | Last Updated: September 18, 2014 This map shows land and sea surface temperature anomalies for August 2014 in degrees Celsius, compared to the 1981 to 2010 average. (NOAA National Climatic Data Center) This past August broke records for the hottest August since global temperature records began in 1880, despite cool summer temperatures in parts of Canada. The world's land and ocean surfaces averaged 16.35 C in August 2014, breaking the previous record set in 1998, reported the U.S. National Climatic Data Center run by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). The ocean was particularly warm, breaking a record high temperature set in June 2014 with an average global surface temperature of 17.11 C. The world's land and ocean surfaces averaged 16.35 C in August 2014, breaking the previous record set in 1998, reported the U.S. National Climatic Data Center run by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. (iStock) Looking at land temperatures only, this was the second-warmest August on record, after 1998. August also topped off a record hot summer — the average temperature from June to August also beat out the previous record set in 1998 to be the hottest since 1880. Overall, global surface temperatures in August were 0.75 C higher and those from June to August were 0.71 C higher than the average for the 20th century. According to NOAA, nine of the 10 warmest Augusts on record have occurred during the 21st century. August 2014 was the 38th consecutive August with a temperature above the 20th century average. Last year, the United Nations-sponsored Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reported that scientists could say with extreme confidence that human activity is the dominant cause of the global warming observed since the 1950s. The higher temperatures are already linked to extreme weather such as heat waves, droughts, floods and rising sea levels. The UN has warned that could lead to increased risk of food shortages, disease outbreaks, financial costs and violence. World leaders are meeting in New York on Sept. 23 for the next United Nations summit to discuss action to address climate change. Climate anomalies occurred around the world during August 2014, from droughts to record temperatures. (NOAA National Climatic Data Center) CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Doc Zone: Weather Gone Wild Climate change: May breaks global temperature record Global investors push for carbon pricing ahead of UN climate summit Greenhouse gases grew at alarming rate in 2013, UN weather agency says External Links NCDC August 2014 global analysis Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca