https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/doomsday-clock-2019-1.4990263
Doomsday Clock remains at 2 minutes to midnight | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Doomsday Clock remains at 2 minutes to midnight Social Sharing Technology & Science Doomsday Clock remains at 2 minutes to midnight The time on the symbolic Doomsday Clock is still at two minutes to midnight, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists announced Thursday morning. Social Sharing Clock first moved to 2 minutes to midnight in 2018 Nicole Mortillaro · CBC News · Posted: Jan 24, 2019 4:00 AM ET | Last Updated: January 24, 2019 Former California governor Jerry Brown, left, and former U.S. secretary of defence William Perry unveil the Doomsday Clock during the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists news conference in Washington, D.C., on Thursday. The Doomsday Clock remains at two minutes to midnight. (Cliff Owen/Associated Press) comments The time on the symbolic Doomsday Clock remains at two minutes to midnight, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists announced Thursday morning. Introduced in 1947, the clock is used as a metaphor meant to measure how close humanity is to destroying civilization. Its hands are moved forward or back depending on the world's level of vulnerability, with midnight representing catastrophe. The clock typically moves by full minutes, but the non-profit group of scientists moved it by just 30 seconds in 2017 and 2018. It reached two minutes to midnight in 2018. Though the clock did not move this year, Rachel Bronson, president and CEO of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, warned it doesn't mean it is a good sign. "We have in fact entered a period that we call the new abnormal," Bronson said. "This new abnormal that the world now inhabits is unsustainable and unsettling. We appear to be normalizing a very dangerous world." The scientists said that in reaching their decision, they took several issues into account, including nuclear weapons, climate change and cybersecurity. The last time the clock was set to two minutes to midnight was in 1953, when the United States and the Soviet Union were testing hydrogen bombs for the first time. The clock's hands were furthest from midnight — 17 minutes — in 1991, at the end of the Cold War. William Perry, chair of the bulletin board of sponsors and a former U.S. secretary of defence, said the current setting invokes memories of 1953, a time when the "brutal" Korean War was ongoing, there were U.S. forces in Germany and the threat of the Soviet Union's Red Army was serious. "What I'm telling you, you already know from history, but what I'm telling you I know because I was there," he said. Scientists move Doomsday Clock ahead to 2 minutes to midnight 'We have to start getting used to it': Record-breaking temperatures heating up the globe All the scientists on hand for the announcement reiterated Bronson's reference to the "new abonormal." Jerry Brown, executive chair of the Bulletin and former governor of California had strong words for his country's government, citing the "blindness and stupidity of politicians and their consultants." "We're like travellers on the Titanic, not seeing the iceberg up ahead but enjoying the elegant dining and music," he said. He also called out journalists who are quick to cover Trump's tweets and exchanges but miss the bigger picture and the threat humanity is currently facing. Brown, as well as the other scientists, stressed that their concern stems not from countries ready to engage in outright nuclear war but from the possibility of some "blunder" that results in a nuclear launch that could kill millions or perhaps billions of people. One of the chief concerns for scientists is climate change. Bronson said that global carbon emissions, which seemed to have been plateauing in recent years, are now once again on the rise. And, she said, 2018 will likely be among the top four hottest years on record. Herb Lin, member of the Bulletin's science and security board and senior research scholar for cyber policy and security at the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, said that we have entered into age of "cyber-enabled information warfare," where incorrect, targeted information is widely distributed and potentially dangerous. "It's a terrible world in which rage and fantasy replace the truth," he said. All the scientists called upon global leaders to join together to combat the nuclear, climate and cyber threats and help turn the Doomsday Clock back. "We're playing Russian roulette with humanity," Brown said. About the Author Nicole Mortillaro Senior Reporter, Science Nicole has an avid interest in all things science. As an amateur astronomer, Nicole can be found looking up at the night sky appreciating the marvels of our universe. She is the editor of the Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada and the author of several books. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Trump says U.S. will develop space-based missile defence Trump to hold 2nd nuclear summit with North Korea's Kim 'We have to start getting used to it': Record-breaking temperatures heating up the globe Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca