https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/nasa-launches-ares-rocket-on-2nd-attempt-1.811446
NASA launches Ares rocket on 2nd attempt | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news NASA launches Ares rocket on 2nd attempt Social Sharing Technology & Science NASA launches Ares rocket on 2nd attempt NASA has launched its new test rocket, a day after the flight's postonement Tuesday. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Oct 28, 2009 7:19 AM ET | Last Updated: October 28, 2009 NASA launched its new Ares I-X test rocket at 11:30 a.m. ET on Wednesday after postponing the flight on Tuesday. NASA's Ares I-X test rocket lifts off successfully from Pad 39B at the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Fla. ((John Raoux/Associated Press)) The rocket successfully lifted off from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida and the two stages of the rocket separated as expected. NASA's ships in the Atlantic Ocean confirmed both stages of the rocket have hit the Atlantic Ocean. The upper stage won't be recovered, but the booster stage dropped into the water under parachutes. A recovery ship will collect the booster for examination. The flight of the rocket lasted about five minutes. Weather problems pushed back the launch time several times. As with Tuesday, the launch window Wednesday extended from 8 a.m. until noon. Systems retested NASA engineers retested systems on the Ares I-X rocket early Wednesday morning to make sure none were damaged after an estimated 154 lightning strikes were reported overnight within an eight kilometre radius of the launch pad at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida. While the weather was clear enough Wednesday morning for a shuttle launch, NASA wouldn't launch the Ares test rocket through even light cloud cover because of the possibility of static electricity interfering with communications. Tuesday's attempt was postponed because of high winds and clouds, and the same conditions persisted Wednesday. Eventually, the skies over the launch pad did clear up enough for NASA to proceed with the launch. The test launch of the 98-metre Ares rocket will help NASA's engineers determine if the design can withstand the extreme stresses that occur during liftoff. No astronauts on board No astronauts were on board the rocket. The Ares I-X is the first version of a series of rockets set to carry the U.S. space agency's next-generation Orion spacecraft after the space shuttle fleet is retired in 2010. There are only six scheduled flights left for the shuttles. The Orion-Ares combination is not due to launch with astronauts on board until 2017 at the earliest. That poses a problem for the U.S. contribution to the International Space Station, which is currently scheduled to be decommissioned in 2015. NASA has invested $445 US million in the test, but the White House is still weighing its decision on whether it wants to continue with the project or scrap it in favour of other rockets and destinations. With files from The Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Quirks & Quarks: NASA reinvents itself with Ares 1-X — sort of Weather delays NASA rocket test External Links NASA Ares I-X Flight Test blog Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca