https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/un-report-climate-talks-1.3841483
The world is getting hotter and an 'increasingly visible human footprint' is to blame: UN | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news The world is getting hotter and an 'increasingly visible human footprint' is to blame: UN Social Sharing Technology & Science The world is getting hotter and an 'increasingly visible human footprint' is to blame: UN Hot and wild and with an "increasingly visible human footprint" — that's how the UN weather agency sums up the global climate in the past five years. Social Sharing 2011-2015 was the hottest 5-year period on record, World Meteorological Organization finds The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 08, 2016 11:26 AM ET | Last Updated: November 8, 2016 Michael, 4 plays under a fountain on a hot summer day in central Brussels, July 2, 2015. A new report from The World Meteorological Organization has found 2011-2015 to be the hottest five-year period on record. (Yves Herman/Reuters) comments Hot and wild and with an "increasingly visible human footprint" — that's how the UN weather agency sums up the global climate in the past five years. In a report released Tuesday at international climate talks in Morocco, the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) said 2011-2015 was the hottest five-year period on record. That comes as no surprise, as WMO's annual reports have showed record average temperatures in 2014 and 2015. But the agency said the five-year report provides a better overview of warming trends and extreme events such as prolonged droughts and recurrent heat waves. UN members work to turn Paris Agreement into action 'A race against time:' Paris Agreement comes into effect Carbon dioxide levels reach highest point ever "We just had the hottest five-year period on record, with 2015 claiming the title of hottest individual year. Even that record is likely to be beaten in 2016," said WMO Secretary-General Petteri Taalas. The WMO's preliminary climate assessment for 2016 is set to be released next week. Extreme heat, melting Arctic While it's complicated to draw links between single weather events and climate change, the report found that many extreme events during the period were made more likely as a result of human-made climate change. In the case of some extreme high temperatures, the probability increased by a factor of 10 or more, the report said. "Examples include the record high seasonal and annual temperatures in the United States in 2012 and in Australia in 2013, hot summers in eastern Asia and western Europe in 2013, heat waves in spring and autumn 2014 in Australia, record annual warmth in Europe in 2014, and a heat wave in Argentina in December 2013," WMO said. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/StateofClimate?src=hash">#StateofClimate</a>. The heat goes on. And on. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Climatechange?src=hash">#Climatechange</a> ups the odds of extreme temperatures, heatwaves. <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/COP22?src=hash">#COP22</a> <a href="https://t.co/cj5WGclqth">https://t.co/cj5WGclqth</a> <a href="https://t.co/eqIGYoO1p0">pic.twitter.com/eqIGYoO1p0</a> &mdash;@WMO The report found no strong climate change link for extreme rainfall events. Other highlights: Arctic summer sea ice coverage was 28 per cent below the 1981-2010 average, reaching a record low in 2012. By contrast, the Antarctic sea ice was above average, especially the winter maximum. Surface melting of the Greenland ice sheet — a contributor to rising seas — continued at above-average levels, exceeding the 1981-2010 average in all five years from 2011 to 2015. Mountain glaciers also continued their decline. Snow cover in the northern hemisphere was "well below average" in all five years, continuing a strong downward trend. 'A clarion call' Climate scientists who were not involved with the report said it underscored the need for governments to boost efforts to fight climate change beyond their pledges for last year's landmark Paris Agreement. UN report warns promised cuts not nearly enough 5 communities threatened by climate change now Find out how much Arctic sea ice you destroy daily "The evidence is overwhelming," said Chris Field, director of the Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment. "The new report from WMO is a clarion call for embracing and going beyond the goals of the Paris Agreement." The sun shines low in the sky just after midnight over a frozen coastline near the Norwegian Arctic town of Longyearbyen. Arctic summer sea ice coverage was 28 per cent below the 1981-2010 average, reaching a record low in 2012, the WMO says. (Francois Lenoir/Reuters) The Paris deal calls for keeping global temperature rises below 2 C compared with preindustrial times. The average temperature in 2015, partly influenced by a powerful El Nino event, was already halfway there. "Halting global warming at a manageable level, as the world's nations decided in the Paris Agreement, is now a race against time," said Stefan Rahmstorf of the Potsdam Institute in Germany. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories UN members avoid Trump talk as they work to turn Paris Agreement into action As Paris Agreement comes into effect, UN warns we are in 'a race against time' The average Canadian household destroys hockey rink-sized stretch of sea ice every 8 years Day before Paris deal comes into effect, UN report warns promised cuts not nearly enough Growing fears that a Trump presidency would scrap Paris climate deal How can Canada fulfil its climate commitment? Pollution near equator has biggest impact on global ozone levels, study finds Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca