https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/humans-causing-catastrophic-ecosystem-shifts-study-finds-1.3133752
Humans causing catastrophic ecosystem shifts, study finds | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Humans causing catastrophic ecosystem shifts, study finds Social Sharing Technology & Science Humans causing catastrophic ecosystem shifts, study finds Never before has a single species become the top predator on land and sea, and human dominance over the natural environment has caused shifts in world ecosystems unprecedented in the last 500 million years, researchers said on Tuesday. Social Sharing At least 468 creatures have been eliminated from the planet since 1900 Thomson Reuters · Posted: Jun 30, 2015 3:28 PM ET | Last Updated: June 30, 2015 The biggest immediate losers from human activity that is leading to an international decline in the variety of plants and animals through extinction will be large predators like tigers and lions, a new study has found. (Martin Meissner/Associated Press) comments Never before has a single species become the top predator on land and sea, and human dominance over the natural environment has caused shifts in world ecosystems unprecedented in the last 500 million years, researchers said on Tuesday. Human activity is leading to an international decline in the variety of plants and animals through extinction, as organisms not useful to human needs are killed off by ecosystem changes or over-exploitation, according to a new study. Read the study in The Anthropocene Review The biggest immediate losers will be large predators like tigers and lions while creatures domesticated by humans, including house cats, will thrive in the new world, said Jan Zalasiewicz, a professor of palaeobiology at the University of Leicester in central England, and co-author of the study. Previous Next Hide caption Toggle Fullscreen1 of 0 From weather patterns altered by the burning of fossil fuels, to the loss of biodiversity through logging and urbanisation, humans are unsustainably exploiting the earth's natural wealth. And with new technology, including selective breeding and genetic modification, humans are now directly altering the evolution of other species, while also changing patterns in natural selection by man-made shifts in the environment, the study said. Large extinctions or climate shifts are nothing new for the Earth, evidenced by the ice age and the disappearance of the dinosaurs, but current environmental changes represent something different, researchers said. "Some human-made changes have genuinely not been seen before on planet Earth," Zalasiewicz told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. The research was published in the academic journal The Anthropocene Review on Monday. Global warming 'is just beginning' In the past, volcanic eruptions, complex ecological breakdowns or meteor strikes caused structural changes to the planet, he said. In contrast, today's shifts — including climate change, ocean acidification, and the loss of biodiversity — have created a "new kind of nature", he said. "Global warming as a phenomenon is just beginning," Zalasiewicz said. "Species extinctions and other changes are far more advanced." Since 1900, extinction rates for vertebrates have been between 10 and 100 times higher than normal levels, he said. At least 468 creatures have been eliminated from the planet since then, he said, including the Costa Rican golden toad and Yangtze dolphin. Human-caused environmental changes have accelerated rapidly since the end of World War Two, as technology has advanced and resource use intensified, Zalasiewicz said. "When global warming really bites, that will ratchet up the changes currently taking place," he said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Act locally to counter climate change: Bob McDonald Can Pope Francis's 'street cred' shift the climate change debate? Photos Humpback whales no longer endangered? A look at the world's at-risk species Should we work to save unique animals, over iconic ones? External Links Read the study in the Anthropocene Review Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca