https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/global-warming-means-food-water-shortages-warns-un-report-1.2583368
Global warming means food, water shortages warns UN report | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Global warming means food, water shortages warns UN report Social Sharing Technology & Science Global warming means food, water shortages warns UN report Global warming will disrupt food supplies, slow world economic growth and may already be causing irreversible damage to nature, according to a UN report due this week that will put pressure on governments to act. Social Sharing Extinctions of animals and plants predicted Thomson Reuters · Posted: Mar 23, 2014 11:36 AM ET | Last Updated: March 23, 2014 The world faces food and water shortages and extinctions of animals and plants says the report. (Jeff Robertson/Associated Press) Global warming will disrupt food supplies, slow world economic growth and may already be causing irreversible damage to nature, according to a UN report due this week that will put pressure on governments to act. A 29-page draft by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) will also outline many ways to adapt to rising temperatures, more heatwaves, floods and rising seas. "The scientific reasoning for reducing emissions and adapting to climate change is becoming far more compelling," Rajendra Pachauri, chair of the IPCC, told Reuters in Beijing. Middle East drought could spark higher food prices Droughts show global warming is a 'scientific fact.' Scientists and more than 100 governments will meet in Japan from March 25-29 to edit and approve the report. It will guide policies in the run-up to a UN summit in Paris in 2015 meant to decide a deal to curb rising greenhouse gas emissions. The 29-page draft projects risks such as food and water shortages and extinctions of animals and plants. Crop yields would range from unchanged to a fall of up to two per cent a decade, compared to a world without warming, it says. And some natural systems may face risks of "abrupt or drastic changes" that could mean irreversible shifts, such as a runaway melt of Greenland or a drying of the Amazon rainforest. A warming of 2.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels could mean massive changes in the world economy says the study. (John Walker/Associated Press) It said there were "early warning signs that both coral reef and Arctic systems are already experiencing irreversible regime shifts". Corals are at risk in warmer seas and the Arctic region is thawing fast. Climate change will hit growth. Warming of 2.5 C above pre-industrial levels could mean "global aggregate economic losses between 0.2 and 2.0 per cent of income", it says. Almost 200 governments have agreed to limit warming to less than 2 C above pre-industrial times, mainly by curbing emissions from burning fossil fuels. Temperatures have already risen by about 0.8 C. Rising risks "A wide range of impacts from climate change are already happening," said Chris Field of Stanford University and a co-chair of the IPCC report. "Risks are much greater with more warming than less warming." "And it doesn't require 100 percent certainty before you have creative options for moving forwards ... there are compelling adaptation options," he told Reuters by telephone. INDEPTH: Climate change World temperatures go off the chart by 2047, study says The report points to options such as improved planning for disasters such as hurricanes or flooding, efforts to breed drought- or flood-resistant crops, measures to save water and energy or wider use of insurance. Field said the IPCC will have to take account of thousands of comments since the draft was leaked to a climate sceptic's website late last year. And the findings will be under scrutiny, especially after the previous IPCC assessment in 2007 wrongly projected that Himalayan glaciers might all melt by 2035, affecting water supplies for millions of people from China to India. 'A wide range of impacts from climate change are already happening,' said Chris Field of Stanford University and a co-chair of the IPCC report. (Marcio Jose Sanchez/ Associated Press) This time, a sub-chapter projects Himalayan ice will range from a 2 percent gain to a 29 percent loss by 2035. "It is virtually certain that these projections are more reliable than an earlier erroneous assessment," it says. The study is the second part of a mammoth three-part report. The first, in September, raised the probability that human activities, rather than natural variations, are the main cause of warming since 1950 to at least 95 per cent from 90 in 2007. But many people in big emitting nations are unconvinced. Only 40 per cent of Americans and 39 per cent of Chinese view climate change as a major threat, according to a Pew Research Center survey of 39 nations in 2013. A third instalment will show solutions to climate change such as more renewable energy. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories INTERACTIVE MAP: Climate change around the world INDEPTH: Climate change Climate change draft report predicts war, heat waves, starvation Photos Extreme Ice Survey: memory of a landscape Droughts show global warming is 'scientific fact' World temperatures go off the chart by 2047, study says Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca