http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/el-nino-climate-change-1.3322632
Strongest El Nino in 15 years playing out in 'uncharted territory,' WMO says | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Strongest El Nino in 15 years playing out in 'uncharted territory,' WMO says Social Sharing Technology & Science Strongest El Nino in 15 years playing out in 'uncharted territory,' WMO says The El Nino weather pattern, a phenomenon associated with extreme droughts, storms and floods, is expected to strengthen before the end of the year and become one of the strongest on record, the U.N. weather agency says. Social Sharing This time, weather pattern may interact with climate change in unexpected ways Thomson Reuters · Posted: Nov 17, 2015 2:20 PM ET | Last Updated: November 17, 2015 A wooden boat is seen stranded on the dry cracked riverbed of the Dawuhan Dam during drought season in Madiun, Indonesia's East Java province, October 5, 2015. Crop failures in the region are being blamed on the El Nino weather pattern, a phenomenon associated with extreme droughts, storms and floods. (Siswowidodo/Antara Foto/Reuters) comments The El Nino weather pattern, a phenomenon associated with extreme droughts, storms and floods, is expected to strengthen before the end of the year and become one of the strongest on record, the U.N. weather agency says. The World Meteorological Organization (WMO) said Monday El Nino was already "strong and mature" and the biggest in more than 15 years. The phenomenon is driven by warm surface water in the eastern Pacific Ocean, and this time three-month averages will peak at more than 2 degrees Celsius above normal, putting this El Nino in the same league as those seen in 1972-73, 1982-83 and 1997-98, the WMO said. This year's El Nino 'is playing out in uncharted territory,' said Secretary-General of World Meteorological Organization (WMO) Michel Jarraud in a news conference Monday. 'Our planet has altered dramatically because of climate change.' (Pierre Albouy/Reuters) "Right now we say we think it's really going to be one of the three strongest ones, it may be one of the two, that we don't know yet. But definitely it's already a very strong one," WMO Secretary-General Michel Jarraud told a news conference. He said the world was better prepared for this El Nino than before, and the worst-affected countries were planning for the impact on agriculture, fisheries, water and health, and implementing disaster management campaigns to save lives and minimise economic damage. "However, this event is playing out in uncharted territory. Our planet has altered dramatically because of climate change, the general trend towards a warmer global ocean, the loss of Arctic sea ice and of over a million square kilometres of summer snow cover in the northern hemisphere," Jarraud said. "So this naturally occurring El Nino event and human-induced climate change may interact and modify each other in ways which we have never before experienced. Even before the onset of El Nino, global average surface temperatures had reached new records. El Nino is turning up the heat even further." Temperatures in 2015 on track to be record 1 degree C hotter Heatwaves would be hotter and more frequent and more places would be at risk of flooding, Jarraud said, while the most severe storms — equivalent to category 4 and 5 hurricanes — would occur more often. In addition, rising sea levels mean tsunamis and storm surges will have greater reach and inflict more damage when they hit land, Jarraud said. El Nino conditions normally reach maximum strength between October and January, then persist through much of the first quarter. "We anticipate that the El Nino will peak over the next few months and will progressively — when we go towards May, June, July, when we go to the second quarter of next year — will go more towards neutral conditions," Jarraud said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories This year's El Nino will be the strongest in 18 years, WMO says El Nino winter may mean ice storms for southwestern Ontario El Nino will be strong, but won't break records, NOAA says 'Biggest El Nino of our generation' may be tempered by The Blob 'Monster' El Nino could cause flooding and erosion on B.C. coast: professor Temperatures in 2015 on track to be record 1 degree C hotter External Links WMO news release Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca