https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/coral-reefs-show-sensitivity-to-climate-change-1.1148568
Coral reefs show sensitivity to climate change | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Coral reefs show sensitivity to climate change Social Sharing Technology & Science Coral reefs show sensitivity to climate change Extreme temperature swings thousands of years ago caused a dramatic shutdown in coral reef growth that lasted more than two millenniums — a finding that makes controlling climate change today all the more pressing, a new study suggests. Social Sharing Past climate extremes shut down reefs for thousands of years, study says CBC News · Posted: Jul 06, 2012 8:37 PM ET | Last Updated: July 7, 2012 A diver snorkels in the Great Barrier Reef off Australia's Queensland state. A new study by Florida researchers says that climate change can stall the growth of coral reefs for thousands of years. (Associated Press) Extreme temperature swings thousands of years ago caused a dramatic shutdown in coral reef growth that lasted more than two millennia — a finding that makes controlling climate change today all the more pressing, a new study suggests. A team of marine biologists drilling into coral reefs off the Pacific coast of Panama found that reefs in the area had stopped growing about 4,000 years ago due to natural climatic shifts. The lead author of the study, Richard Aronson, with the Florida Institute of Technology, told CBC Radio's As It Happens on Friday that the reefs in Panama didn't resume growth until 2,500 years later. "It's important because it tells us that when bad things happen to reefs, it can shut them down for a long period of time," Aronson said, speaking from Melbourne, Fla. "Our biggest mystery, then, was to figure out what exactly had happened, and we were able to pin that shutdown of reefs on climate and, in particular, the variability of the El Nino southern oscillation, of which El Nino events are a part." Aronson explained that a "climatic seesaw" in the Pacific caused hot water to "bleach" and damage the coral and cold water from La Nina weather patterns to suppress its growth. Flattening of reefs The death of corals causes their skeletons to collapse, and the reef zone to flatten. "That means it doesn't have the cavities and crevices that fish and octopuses and conches and crabs and all the other inhabitants of the reef depend on, so they go away," Aronson said. "So what you're left with is essentially a pile of rubble that can be covered with algae or just covered by sand, as compared to a vibrant reef with coral branches growing everywhere and lots of things living in it." Aronson said it's not too late to reverse global warming and ocean acidification by capping greenhouse gas emissions. "The window is closing, but it's still open. Now is the time to act and this is certainly not the time to give up and say it's all over," he said. "This is the time we need to be fighting the hardest to save coral reefs and all the other natural habitats on the planet." The findings were published in the latest issue of the journal Science. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories As It Happens Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca