https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/trump-claim-us-cleanest-country-lacks-support-1.4146076
Trump's claim that U.S. the 'cleanest' on Earth lacks scientific support | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Trump's claim that U.S. the 'cleanest' on Earth lacks scientific support Social Sharing Technology & Science Trump's claim that U.S. the 'cleanest' on Earth lacks scientific support President Donald Trump said the United States "will continue to be the cleanest and most environmentally friendly country on Earth" as he announced a U.S. pullout from an international accord designed to curb climate change. Social Sharing U.S. is the second-worst country in terms of carbon pollution The Associated Press · Posted: Jun 05, 2017 11:05 AM ET | Last Updated: June 5, 2017 The United States is one of the dirtiest countries when it comes to carbon pollution. (The Associated Press) President Donald Trump said the United States "will continue to be the cleanest and most environmentally friendly country on Earth" as he announced a U.S. pullout from an international accord designed to curb climate change. But facts muddy that claim. Data show that the U.S. is among the dirtiest countries when it comes to heat-trapping carbon pollution. One nation that has cleaner air in nearly every way is Sweden. Trump issues executive order rolling back Obama climate change policies New EPA head says carbon dioxide pollution not main contributor to climate change "The U.S. is well behind other countries in having the cleanest and most sustainable environment," University of Michigan environmental scientist Rosina Bierbaum said in an email. The U.S. emits more carbon dioxide than any other nation except China. In 2014, the U.S. spewed 237 times more carbon dioxide into the air than Sweden, according to figures by the U.S. Department of Energy's Oak Ridge National Laboratory. "On pretty much any climate-related indicator, the U.S. will not look good," said Glen Peters, a Norwegian climate scientist who is part of the Global Carbon Project that ranks worldwide emissions. The U.S. is No. 2 in per person carbon dioxide pollution, behind Luxembourg, among 35 developed nations plus China, India and Brazil, Energy Department data show. That's 17.3 metric tons of carbon dioxide per year for the average American, compared with 4.5 metric tons for the average Swede. An elderly man walks in front of a group of people during heavy smog at a the Temple of Heaven park in Beijing on December 20, 2016. (Wang Zhao/AFP/Getty Images) Taking into account economics, the U.S. ranks 10th highest in carbon pollution per gross domestic product behind China, India, Russia, Estonia, Poland, South Korea, the Czech Republic, Mexico and Turkey, according to the International Energy Agency. The U.S. spews almost five times more carbon dioxide per dollar in the economy than Sweden. Because carbon dioxide stays in the atmosphere for more than a century, scientists and regulators say it's more important to look at historical emissions. Since 1870, the U.S. has produced about one-quarter of the world's carbon dioxide — twice as much as China — and that makes it the biggest polluter in the world by far, Peters said. Cleaner in different aspects In some traditional air pollution measurements, the United States is cleaner than most nations, said William K. Reilly, who headed the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under Republican President George H.W. Bush. But "when the problem he is dealing with is carbon dioxide, we are notably not better than the rest of the world," said Reilly, adding that Trump is "just wrong." The U.S. is better than most of the world when it comes to dangerous soot or fine particles. Among industrialized countries, the U.S. tied for sixth cleanest, according to the Health Effects Institute. It's also tied for sixth smoggiest in the world with Turkey, according to the institute. "There are a number of countries that have cleaner air in terms of major industrial nations. We are certainly in the top core," said Dan Greenbaum, the group's president. "Clearly, countries like China and India are much, much worse than we are." Windmills of the German wind farm BARD Offshore 1, are pictured 100 km offshore of the German island of Borkum. Germany is ahead of most countries in terms of renewable energy. (Fabian Bimmer/Reuters) The U.S. leads in helping people fight for a clean environment by having laws and procedures that allow citizens to sue to enforce pollution protections and get information, said Princeton University climate scientist and international affairs professor Michael Oppenheimer. Other countries are far ahead of the U.S. in cleaner energy, especially Germany, which on occasion is fuelled fully by renewables, Oppenheimer said. Reilly, the former EPA head, recalled how the U.S. took environmental leadership 25 years ago this month as it became the first industrial country to ratify the first climate treaty. "Now we turn the page," Reilly said. "We'll see where it goes." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Trump's decision on the Paris accord and what it means for the oilpatch Leaders pledge to save 'Mother Earth' despite Trump's decision to abandon Paris accord Cities, states forge ahead with own plans despite Trump's withdrawal from climate deal External Links Climate change temperatures and emissions (Associated Press) Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca