https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/nasa-announces-next-space-station-crew-1.600492
NASA announces next space station crew | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news NASA announces next space station crew Social Sharing Technology & Science NASA announces next space station crew NASA announced the next crew of the International Space Station on Wednesday as astronauts from the current crew and the space shuttle Discovery prepared for their second spacewalk. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Dec 13, 2006 12:53 PM ET | Last Updated: December 13, 2006 NASA announced the next crew of the International Space Station on Wednesday as astronauts from the current crew and the space shuttle Discovery prepared for their second spacewalk. Russian cosmonaut Fyodor Yurchikhin will command the Expedition 15 crew of cosmonaut Oleg Kotov and NASA astronauts Clay Anderson and Dan Tani, NASA said at a press briefing. Computer software engineer Charles Simonyiisalso set to become the fifth space tourist when he travels to the station with Yurchikhin and Kotov aboard a Soyuz spacecraft in April 2007. Yurchikhin and Soyuz pilot Kotov will replace two members of the Expedition 14 crew, who will return with Simonyi aboard the Soyuz spacecraft. The two cosmonauts will spend six months aboard the station. Space shuttles will transport Anderson and Tani to the station later in the year. Anderson will be part of the space shuttle Endeavour's mission, targeted for launch next June. Tani will replace Anderson a few months later when he arrives aboard the shuttle Atlantis. German Thomas Reiter of the European Space Agency will be returning to Earthafter his own six-month tour of duty finishes at the end of the 11-day Discovery mission.Replacing him will be U.S. astronaut Suni Williams. Williams is partthe seven-person crew of Discovery, which launched successfully on Saturday night and is rewiringthe station. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories INDEPTH: Shuttle launch Shuttle astronauts complete first of three spacewalks External Links NASA: Expedition 15 crew biographies Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca