https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/arctic-ocean-leaking-methane-scientists-say-1.1212289
Arctic Ocean leaking methane, scientists say | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Arctic Ocean leaking methane, scientists say Social Sharing Technology & Science Arctic Ocean leaking methane, scientists say Cracks in Arctic sea ice are leaking alarming levels of methane, a greenhouse gas far more potent than carbon dioxide, according to NASA scientists. Social Sharing Powerful greenhouse gas could accelerate climate change CBC News · Posted: Apr 23, 2012 1:30 PM ET | Last Updated: April 23, 2012 Ice chunks float in the Arctic Ocean as the sun sets near Barrow, Alaska. The ocean is being studied as a possible source of methane gas, after NASA researchers recorded higher-than-normal levels of the greenhouse gas during an airborne study. (Beth Ipsen/Associated Press) Cracks in Arctic sea ice are leaking alarming levels of methane, a greenhouse gas far more potent than carbon dioxide, according to NASA scientists. Atmospheric measurements recorded in several flyovers above the Arctic Ocean surprised researchers with NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California. While methane reservoirs have previously been detected around ice and permafrost in shallower seabeds near land, more remote parts of the Arctic Ocean were not known to be a source of methane. Five Arctic flights were carried out from 2009 to 2010, venturing to latitudes of up to 82 degrees north. The airborne study was part of the HIAPER observations project, in which a Gulfstream V aircraft outfitted with special instruments flew from the North Pole to the South Pole, taking atmospheric measurements from about 14 kilometres above the Earth's surface. The campaign is meant to chart climate change. 20 times more potent than carbon dioxide The findings, published in the latest issue of Nature Geoscience, point to a potential new climate threat from the Arctic region, suggested Eric Kort, with the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Scientists said they didn't expect the gas to be detected at such high altitudes and aren't exactly sure how the methane is being produced. A possibility is that it comes from living organisms in the surface waters, and that the gas is released during thawing of ice. Kort noted that the methane levels detected weren't very large, but methane is about 20 times more powerful than carbon dioxide. If the ocean is indeed a previously undiscovered source of methane, that would be troubling. "While the methane levels we detected weren't particularly large, the potential source region, the Arctic Ocean, is vast, so our finding could represent a noticeable new global source of methane," he said. "As Arctic sea ice cover continues to decline in a warming climate, this source of methane may well increase." Scientists warn that melting ice may cause greater methane emissions, setting into motion a disturbing cycle. A warmer climate could cause more Arctic sea ice to crumble and release more methane stores, thus accelerating climate change. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Climate change linked to recent weather extremes Extreme weather takes growing toll Arctic permafrost thawing may speed warming, say scientists Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca