https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/mars-could-once-have-supported-life-rover-finds-1.1309903
Mars could once have supported life, rover finds | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Mars could once have supported life, rover finds Social Sharing Technology & Science Mars could once have supported life, rover finds Mars once had all the right conditions to support living microbes, suggests a chemical analysis by the Curiosity rover. Social Sharing Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Mar 12, 2013 11:59 AM ET | Last Updated: March 13, 2013 NASA scientists say that Mars once had all the right conditions to support life, according to a chemical analysis by the Curiosity rover, CBC's Ron Charles reports 2:09 On Feb. 8, Curiosity drilled a fresh hole, centre, next to an earlier test hole. (NASA/Associated Press) Mars once had all the right conditions to support living microbes, suggests a chemical analysis by the Curiosity rover. "This was an ancient environment with … all the prerequisites to support life — a habitable environment," reported Michael Meyer, lead scientist with NASA's Mars Exploration Program at a news conference Tuesday. The car-sized robotic rover analyzed a sample of rock that it had drilled out of an area in Mars's Gale Crater known as Yellowknife Bay — named after the capital of Canada's Northwest Territories because of the city’s link to the exploration of North America's oldest rocks. The powdered sample, collected in February, proved to be a fine-grained mudstone containing clay minerals and other compounds that showed it was once a body of water that wasn't too acidic, oxidizing or salty. John Grotzinger, a Curiosity project scientist at the California Institute of Technology, said it was "so benign and supportive of life that probably if this water was around and you had been on the planet, you would have been able to drink it." Grotzinger estimated that the comfortable conditions likely occurred around three billion years ago — around the same time as life first arose on Earth. In addition to clay, Curiosity's first drill sample contained sulphur compounds in different forms that could theoretically provide a source of chemical energy for microbes, as they do on Earth, the researchers reported. RELATED: Mars rover has considerable Canadian connection Among the other chemicals detected by Curiosity were carbon dioxide that could have come from reactions involving either carbonate rock or carbon. There was also a small quantity of the simple organic compounds chloromethane and dichloromethane, which are also based on carbon — an element necessary for building life as we know it. The rover team will reveal the minerals and chemicals that Curiosity found inside the rock that it drilled. (NASA/JPL-Caltech/MSSS) The researchers are planning to drill another hole in May that will help confirm the results. Grotzinger said the mission scientists are also hoping to undertake a more systematic search to get a bigger carbon signal. However, the mission scientists emphasized that Curiosity is not properly equipped to detect life itself. Curiosity landed on Mars on Aug. 6 and came across an ancient riverbed two months later. It arrived at Yellowknife Bay by following the riverbed a few hundred metres. Canadian contribution The rover's first drilling site was chosen with the help of a range of instruments on its arm, including one called the APXS (alpha-particle-X-ray spectrometer ) that was designed by Ralf Gellert at the University of Guelph in Ontario. The rover's camera showed rocks with a white, fine-grained material in their cracks. Then the APXS revealed that the material contained sulphate and calcium, suggesting it was likely deposited by water on top of the existing bedrock, Gellert told CBC News in an interview. That prompted the mission scientists to try drilling there. Gellert noted that the rover has not yet reached Mount Sharp, a target area where instruments orbiting Mars had previously detected signs of water, and so the "great result" announced Tuesday was in fact, unexpected. "The interesting thing for me personally is where we drove now is where the orbiters don't see actually much," he said. "You see way more from the ground, of course, than you see from above." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Curiosity rover bores hole in a Mars rock for analysis Mars rover has a considerable Canadian connection Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca