https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/vulva-images-in-france-are-among-oldest-cave-art-1.1149887
Vulva images in France are among oldest cave art | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Vulva images in France are among oldest cave art Social Sharing Technology & Science·Audio Vulva images in France are among oldest cave art Rock engravings and traces of painting discovered in southwest France are believed to be from at least 37,000 years ago, making them among the world's oldest cave art. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: May 18, 2012 4:48 PM ET | Last Updated: May 18, 2012 An image from a chunk of the collapased ceiling of a rock shelter in France shows an engraved figure that in prehistoric art commonly represents a vulva. Researchers think it's at least 37,000 years old. (Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences) Rock engravings and traces of painting discovered in France are believed to be from about 37,000 years ago, making them among the world's oldest such finds. Some of the cave art depicts what appears to be female genitalia. The discovery was made in 2007 and the findings published online this week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. CBC's Bob McDonald spoke to the lead author of the study, New York University anthropology professor Randall White, on Quirks & Quarks. Click on the play button above to listen to the interview. TUNE IN Prof. Randall White is on Quirks & Quarks on May 19 at noon on CBC Radio One. The cave decorations were found on a 1.5-tonne rock-shelter ceiling that had collapsed at the well-known archeological site of Abri Castanet in Dordogne, France. The ceiling collapsed 37,000 years ago, meaning the art dates to at least 4,000 years before the widely studied paintings in southern France's Chauvet Cave, which had been thought to be the oldest known cave paintings created by humans and were featured in Werner Herzog's critically acclaimed 2010 documentary Cave of Forgotten Dreams. "The 'vulvar' representations from southwestern France are as old or older than the very different wall images from Chauvet," the report says. The images at Abri Castanet also include animals. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Audio How to think like a Neanderthal Cave paintings in Spain reopen amid controversy France racing to save Lascaux cave paintings from fungus Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca