https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/apatoraptor-feathers-1.3536313
Newly identified Alberta dinosaur had arm muscles fit to lift feathers | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Newly identified Alberta dinosaur had arm muscles fit to lift feathers Social Sharing Technology & Science Newly identified Alberta dinosaur had arm muscles fit to lift feathers Scientists have discovered signs of unusual muscles on the arms of a new species of dinosaur that once fished in the swamps and bayous of what is now southern Alberta. Social Sharing Apatoraptor pennatus likely displayed its feathers to impress potential mates Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Apr 14, 2016 5:21 PM ET | Last Updated: April 14, 2016 Apatoraptor likely would have waded through water like a heron, catching small prey with its beak and fingers and grazing on aquatic plants. (Sydney Mohr) comments Scientists have discovered signs of unusual muscles on the arms of a new species of dinosaur that once fished in the swamps and bayous of what is now southern Alberta. The dinosaur, named Apatoraptor pennatus, didn't use those muscles for brawling or lifting heavy weights, but for moving its feathers, University of Alberta paleontologists report in a new paper published in the Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology. Apatoraptor was a bird-like dinosaur that walked on two legs and had a long neck and a long tail. It was related to other dinosaurs that were known to have feathers all over their bodies, including long tail feathers and head crests. It was already known that the dinosaurs had feathers on their arms and most of their bodies. "But what we didn't know was that they actually could move those feathers," said Greg Funston, the lead author of the study. What wasn't bird-like was the dinosaur's size — it was about two metres long and 180 kilograms, making it quite a bit larger than a human. "'Cause these animals are way too big to fly, they're probably using their feathers for display," added Funston, who studied the dinosaur as part of his PhD. Those displays would likely have been used to impress potential mates. Funston said Apatoraptor lived about 70 million years ago — four million years before dinosaurs went extinct — in a swampy, coastal environment that would have looked something like the Mississippi River Delta in Louisiana. The area was home to a variety of dinosaurs, including duck-billed dinosaurs like Edmontosaurs, tyrannosaurs, horned dinosaurs like triceratops, and relatives of velociraptor. Apatoraptor likely would have waded through the water like a heron, catching small prey with its beak and fingers. It may have also grazed on aquatic plants. The Apatoraptor's skeleton, which was very complete and almost fully assembled or "articulated" when it was found, was collected near Drumheller in 1993. At that time, it was mistaken for a common dinosaur called an ornithomimid. By the time Funston started studying the skeleton, it had been re-identified as another type of dinosaur called Epichirostenotes — a dinosaur he had already studied and was familiar with. But this specimen didn't seem to match up. "Some of the proportions of the finger bones were off and some shapes of the finger bones were different." There were also some features of its lower jaw that "really just didn't look right." Funston realized it was a new species. Further studies showed that it was related to Epichirostenotes, but its closest known relatives actually lived in Mongolia. He discovered the telltale signs of its unusual arm muscles after CT scanning the dinosaur's arm bones. They had tiny scars like those left by the feather-moving muscles of birds. Funston named the new dinosaur for its mistaken identity and its feathers — Apato means "deceptive" and pennatus means "winged." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories University of Alberta researcher finds feathers on Ornithomimus dinosaur Feathers originated as dinosaur whiskers, U of A experts speculate Dinosaur researchers reveal how males wooed mates Feathered plant-eating dinosaur found External Links Summary of the paper in Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca