https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/shuttle-inspection-finds-no-damage-1.813824
Shuttle inspection finds no damage | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Shuttle inspection finds no damage Social Sharing Technology & Science Shuttle inspection finds no damage The space shuttle Endeavour showed no damage to its heat shield during an inspection by astronauts Wednesday and is still on track to return to Earth Friday. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 29, 2009 11:21 AM ET | Last Updated: July 30, 2009 The space shuttle Endeavour showed no damage to its heat shield during an inspection by astronauts Wednesday and is still on track to return to Earth Friday. The images collected during the inspection will require about 20 hours of analysis in total, said flight director Tony Ceccacci, but as of Wednesday afternoon, they had not revealed any serious problems. The shuttle's crew, including Canadian Julie Payette, were scheduled to sleep at 6 p.m. ET and wake up eight hours later to start their final day in orbit Thursday, NASA reported Wednesday afternoon on Twitter. As with an earlier inspection, Montreal-born Payette operated a 30-metre-long laser-tipped boom to inspect the heat shield for damage. Both the laser and boom were made with technology developed in Canada: Ottawa technology firm Neptec designed and built the 3-D laser camera, while the space robotics division of Canadarm-maker MacDonald, Dettwiler and Associates made the boom the sensor sits atop. Endeavour's thermal protection system had already been cleared for landing based on an earlier review, but NASA wanted to do one more check to ensure the shuttle's wings and nose were not damaged during the shuttle's time connected to the International Space Station. The shuttle undocked from the space station on Tuesday, completing an 11-day stay during which Endeavour's crew delivered and installed a porch-like structure used to conduct experiments exposed to the harsh conditions of outer space — the third major component to Japan's Kibo laboratory. Endeavour is scheduled to return Friday at NASA's Kennedy Space Center in Florida. The station took in another visitor on Wednesday, as an unmanned Russian cargo vessel carrying several tonnes of supplies docked. Cmdr. Gennady Padalka manually guided the craft in after a problem with the cargo vessel's automatic system. With files from The Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Where shuttles go to land PHOTO GALLERY: Canadian Endeavour Endeavour undocks from space station Astronauts share their thoughts about life in space Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca