https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/dinosaur-drumsticks-1.3494308
Chicken embryos grown with dinosaur-like lower legs | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Chicken embryos grown with dinosaur-like lower legs Social Sharing Technology & Science Chicken embryos grown with dinosaur-like lower legs University of Chile researchers have grown chicken embryos with 'dinosaur-like' lower legs that have two connected lower leg bones instead of one big bone and a needle-like splinter. Social Sharing Scientists study embryos in effort to understand dinosaur-bird evolution Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Mar 16, 2016 3:44 PM ET | Last Updated: March 16, 2016 Birds evolved from a group of two-legged, meat-eating dinosaurs, including Gorgosaurus, about 150 million years ago. While bird and dinosaur legs are similar, there is a distinct difference in their lower leg bones. (Danielle Dufault) comments What would it be like to chomp down on a dinosaur drumstick? Well, for one thing, it wouldn't have that weird needle-like bone you find in chicken legs. University of Chile researchers have grown chicken embryos with "dinosaur-like" lower legs that have two connected lower leg bones instead of one big bone and a needle-like splinter. In doing so, they say they've figured out what changed in the evolution between dinosaurs and birds to give birds their unusual leg bones. Birds evolved about 150 million years ago from a group of two-legged meat-eating dinosaurs called theropods, which included T. rex. An employee holds up some chicken legs in an organic supermarket in Munich. Chicken drumsticks contain a splinter-like bone that is unique to birds. (Michaela Rehle/Reuters) In order to figure out how that evolution happened, some researchers around the world have been looking at the development of bird embryos, which are expected to be similar to dinosaur embryos early in development. By making small changes to the way genes are turned on during development, researchers can sometimes induce dinosaur-like traits in the chicken embryos. For example, U.S. researchers have previously grown chicks with dinosaur-like snouts instead of beaks. In the new study, Joao Botelho and Alexander Vargas at the University of Chile focused on the lower leg bones. Most land-dwelling vertebrates with four limbs — including humans and dinosaurs — have two connected lower leg bones. The thicker tibia and the thinner fibula are usually joined at both the knee and the ankle. In most birds, however, the fibula is extremely thin, shorter than the tibia, and only attached to the tibia at the knee, not the ankle. Early in development, though, bird embryos have a tibia and fibula of equal length, just like other animals. 'Ancestral trait' Botelho and Vargas found that by lowering the levels of a protein called Indian hedgehog that helps the skeleton mature, they stopped the fibula from detaching at the ankle. "Its shape did not become splinter-like, but remains tubular and dinosaur-like," the researchers wrote in a paper published in the journal Evolution. The fibula bone (orange) in Dinosaurs is as long as the tibia and reaches down to the ankle (upper left), whereas in adult birds, it is splinter-like and shorter than the tibia, missing its lower end (upper right). However, bird embryos actually start out like dinosaurs, and then develop their adult anatomy (centre). The transformation can be stopped by experimental inhibition of Indian Hedgehog (IHH), a bone maturation gene, which leads to a bird with a dinosaur-like fibula (lower right). (University of Chile) Hans Larsson, a McGill University researcher who does similar research related to the evolution of bird wings and tails, noted that in this case, that trait isn't just "dinosaur-like." "What they did was sort of bring back, potentially, a more ancestral trait, which dinosaurs had, but also mammals have and other reptiles have," he told CBC News in an interview Wednesday. And while the researchers showed one way to do that, it wasn't necessarily the specific change that happened between dinosaurs and birds, he added. The chicken embryos in the new study never did grow big enough to produce drumsticks. Generally, in such experiments, they're not allowed to hatch at all. "It's because there's no scientific reason to do so," Larsson said, adding that allowing the chicks to hatch could raise new ethical issues. Dinosaur-like snouts grown on chicken embryos How dinosaurs shrank into birds CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Dinosaur-like snouts grown on chicken embryos 'Pregnant' T. rex discovery confirmed Feathers originated as dinosaur whiskers, U of A experts speculate How dinosaurs shrank into birds Dinosaur species that evolved into birds survived by shrinking Dinosaurs weren't warm-blooded, study suggests External Links Full paper in Evolution News release from University of Chile Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca