https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/scientists-explore-storing-co2-in-rock-1.916655
Scientists explore storing CO2 in rock | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Scientists explore storing CO2 in rock Social Sharing Technology & Science Scientists explore storing CO2 in rock Storing excess carbon dioxide in rock to reduce its presence in the atmosphere is being explored by Icelandic scientists. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jun 17, 2010 12:02 PM ET | Last Updated: June 17, 2010 Storing excess carbon dioxide in rock to reduce its presence in the atmosphere is being explored by Icelandic scientists. Known as carbon sequestration, the process involves funneling carbon dioxide deep under the earth where it mixes with minerals to form rock. A pilot program involving carbon sequestration is underway at an Icelandic geothermal plant. There, carbon dioxide is separated from other atmosphere gasses, transported, dissolved in water and injected under high pressure into basalt rock 400 to 800 meters below the surface of the earth. When CO2 mixes with water, it forms carbonic acid that dissolves minerals and forms solid carbonates inside rock. The findings are being presented by University of Iceland researchers at the University of Tennessee Thursday. On Wednesday, the Canadian Standards Association (CSA) announced a joint agreement with the International Performance Assessment Centre for Geologic Storage of Carbon Dioxide to develop Canada's first carbon capture and storage (CCS) standard for the geologic storage of industrial emissions. The CSA hopes the standard will act as a base for the development of international standards for geologic storage. "On a global scale, approximately 31 billion tons of CO2 are emitted per year into the atmosphere," the CSA wrote in a news release. "The International Energy Agency has urged a quick and global push to develop and deploy CCS technologies to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories How easy is it to nab greenhouse gases at the smokestack? External Links World's first standard for deep-earth storage of industrial carbon emissions to be developed by CSA Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca