https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/oldest-animal-fossils-found-in-australia-1.974437
Oldest animal fossils found in Australia | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Oldest animal fossils found in Australia Social Sharing Technology & Science Oldest animal fossils found in Australia Fossils of sponge-like animals that lived around 650 million years ago — 70 million years earlier than any other known animal fossils — have been found in South Australia. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Aug 18, 2010 10:40 AM ET | Last Updated: August 18, 2010 The fossils were found embedded in limestone columns called stromatalites that were formed by mats of ancient bacteria. ((Adam Maloof/Princeton University)) Fossils of sponge-like animals that lived around 650 million years ago — 70 million years earlier than any other known animal fossils — have been found in South Australia. The fossils were found under a 635-million-year-old glacial deposit, reported a study published Tuesday in Nature Geoscience. The rock was photographed after each of 500 thin layers were removed, producing images like this one. The fossil of interest is outlined in blue. ((Maloof Lab/Situ Studio)) Geoscientists Adam Maloof and Catherine Rose, researchers at Princeton University in New Jersey who led the study, discovered centimetre-long wishbone, ring and anvil-shaped forms embedded in limestone columns called stromatalites that were formed by mats of bacteria, which were common in ancient seas. The researchers suspected they might be parts of the bodies of animals, and 3-D models created from the fossils support that theory. The finding was surprising because there was a very severe ice age 635 million years ago. "No one was expecting that we would find animals that lived before the ice age," said Maloof in a statement, "and since animals probably did not evolve twice, we are suddenly confronted with the question of how a relative of these reef-dwelling animals survived the 'snowball Earth.'" According to the National Science Foundation, which funded the study, the find is at least 70 million years older than any other evidence of animal body forms in the fossil record. Because the animals were made of the same material as the rock itself, they couldn't be removed or imaged with X-rays. Instead, the researchers collaborated with Situ Studio, a design company based in Brooklyn, N.Y., with an expertise in digital modelling techniques. Stacking the images resulted in a 3-D model showing an irregularly shaped body with a network of channels through it. ((Situ Studio)) By shaving off thin layers of the rock, each about half the width of a human hair, and photographing it after each layer was removed, the team managed to create a 3-D model of the animals. The model revealed marble-sized bodies, irregularly shaped with an internal network of interconnected millimetre-wide channels. At least three of the specimens had a short, tube-shaped appendage at its base that may have been used to attach it to a solid surface. The researchers believe the fossils likely belonged to a sponge-like filter feeding animal. The oldest fossil sponges previously found lived around 520 million years ago. However, chemical traces from materials of cell membranes of sponges were discovered in 2009 in sedimentary rocks more than 635 million years old. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Researchers find earliest evidence of animal life External Links Nature Geoscience: Abstract of the article Nature Geoscience: Abstract of the article Nature Geoscience: Abstract of the article Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca