https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/astronauts-take-2nd-spacewalk-to-replace-old-tank-1.881479
Astronauts take 2nd spacewalk to replace old tank | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Astronauts take 2nd spacewalk to replace old tank Social Sharing Technology & Science Astronauts take 2nd spacewalk to replace old tank Spacewalking astronauts had to pull out a hammer and pry bar while attaching a big, new tank of ammonia coolant to the International Space Station on Sunday, successfully driving in a stiff bolt after two frustrating hours. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Apr 11, 2010 12:50 PM ET | Last Updated: April 11, 2010 In this image provided by NASA-TV astronauts Rick Mastracchio, left, and Clay Anderson work on the International Space Station early Sunday morning. ((NASA/Associated Press)) Spacewalking astronauts had to pull out a hammer and pry bar while attaching a big, new tank full of ammonia coolant to the International Space Station on Sunday, successfully driving in a stiff bolt after two frustrating hours. The 346-kilometre-high action unfolded on the 40th anniversary of the launch of Apollo 13. Making their second spacewalk in three days, Rick Mastracchio and Clayton Anderson banged and pulled and shoved, with no success, on the stuck bolt. They undid the good bolts and jostled the 771-kilogram, refrigerator-size tank in case it was misaligned. Finally, the troublesome bolt slid into its slot. "You got to be kidding me!" shouted Anderson. "Did it go in?" astronaut Dorothy Metcalf-Lindenburger asked from inside. "Yes, yes. You got to be kidding me," Anderson replied. "It is in there." Then he paused for effect. "Now what do we do?" As he turned the bolt a dozen times, Anderson urged, "Come on, baby. Get on there. Yeah, get 'er done." The astronauts inside kept urging the spacewalkers to take a break and rest their hands. But they insisted they weren't too tired. Nevertheless, Mission Control put off the fluid line hookups for the tank and a few other chores, saying they could be completed in the third and final spacewalk Tuesday. Even with that, the spacewalk ran long at 7½ hours. By then, the two were beat. Steak and corn for dinner Shuttle Discovery's commander, Alan Poindexter, urged his two crewmen to "take it slow and easy" as they headed back inside. And Metcalf-Lindenburger promised them a good dinner. Anderson, a Nebraskan, got a hankering for corn — and steak — after Metcalf-Lindenburger complimented him with a baseball term. "Clay makes turning bolts look like a can of corn," she said, referring to an easily caught fly ball. "That was a long, long day, and you did a really good job." The slot for the fresh tank was emptied earlier in the spacewalk, when Mastracchio and Anderson popped out a spent ammonia tank that had been on the space station for eight years. The ammonia is circulated through radiators to cool the station's electronics. Removing the old tank also proved difficult. One side of the boxy container got hung up on a mechanism, and Anderson had to tug it loose. Then, as the spacewalkers were moving the old tank toward the robot arm for capture, Anderson got caught on a pit pin and lanyard. "Jiminy Christmas," he grumbled, freeing himself. With the spacewalkers serving as lookouts, the robot arm placed the old tank on a space station rail cart for storage. The tank was moved to another temporary location a few hours later, after the spacewalkers attached another handle on it. During Tuesday's spacewalk, the empty tank will be placed into the docked shuttle for return to Earth. NASA plans to refill the ammonia tank and fly it back to the space station this summer as a spare. That will be the next-to-last shuttle flight. As Mastracchio and Anderson worked outside Sunday morning, their colleagues unloaded more supplies out of the cargo carrier delivered by Discovery last week and stuffed it with old equipment and trash. The new ammonia tank also flew up on the shuttle. Discovery will remain at the space station until Saturday. Landing is scheduled for April 19. Apollo 13's three-man crew blasted off April 11, 1970. An oxygen tank ruptured two days later as the astronauts made their way to the moon. The rescue became one of the most dramatic ever seen by the world and remains one of NASA's shining moments. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories U of T engineers honoured for Apollo 13 aid Astronauts take 1st spacewalk of mission Shuttle Discovery arrives at space station Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca