https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/payette-to-join-fellow-canadian-thirsk-in-space-on-historic-mission-1.800991
Payette to join fellow Canadian Thirsk in space on 'historic' mission | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Payette to join fellow Canadian Thirsk in space on 'historic' mission Social Sharing Technology & Science Payette to join fellow Canadian Thirsk in space on 'historic' mission Watching fellow Canadian astronaut Bob Thirsk blast off into space Wednesday for a trip to the International Space Station brought back memories for Julie Payette who made her first space flight 10 years ago. Social Sharing The Canadian Press · Posted: May 28, 2009 8:57 PM ET | Last Updated: May 29, 2009 Watching fellow Canadian astronaut Bob Thirsk blast off into space Wednesday for a trip to the International Space Station brought back memories for Julie Payette who made her first space flight 10 years ago. It was May 27, 1999, when Payette last flew to the space station on board U.S. space shuttle Discovery. At the time it had just two empty modules and there was no one living on board. But when she makes her next trip in a couple of weeks, Payette, 45, will find the giant space lab has expanded to eight habitable modules and grown to the size of two football fields. Payette, who is from Montreal, launches June 13 aboard U.S. space shuttle Endeavour for a 16-day mission that's destined for the history books. When she gets into orbit, it will be the first time Canada has had two astronauts in space at the same time. "It's historic, but I see that as a normal evolution for a country which has always been an important player in the exploration of space," Payette said Thursday during a news conference with her colleagues from Houston. Space station will be home to 13 Thirsk will be spending six months on board the station — a record stay by a Canadian astronaut. He will also lay out the welcome mat for Payette who will arrive with her six crewmates two days after their Florida departure. Between Thirsk and his five crew mates and Payette and her six colleagues, there will be a record 13 people living and working inside the space station. Payette will be the only woman among them. "If you're asking me how I feel about it, the good news is that nobody is going to steal my hair band, but I will probably have to share some of my food," she quipped. Asked in a subsequent telephone interview about the significance of the number 13 — she leaves June 13 and will be among that many on board — Payette said she's not superstitious. "I played Olympic handball in high school most of my youth and that was my number," she said. "If anything it's a lucky one." Payette will operate Canadarm Payette, a mother of two boys aged 15 and five, said she'll miss her youngest's birthday but suggests he's more interested in toys than her upcoming odyssey. "Power Rangers and Transformers are much more exciting for him at the moment than astronauts," Payette said, adding she'll be playing with a number of robots herself during the mission. Payette will be operating the Canadarm to inspect the Endeavour for damages. She will also be handling the Canadarm2 and a smaller Japanese robotic arm. Payette said the international co-operation involved in building and operating the space station is an extraordinary achievement. "It's the United Nations .… I think that if we're gonna remember something about the first decade of the years 2000 … it's probably the achievements of the International Space Station," she said. "That will survive in the history books as the first time human beings have put their brains, their resources, their hearts together to build a station, [and] advance knowledge in a peaceful manner." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Canadian astronaut Thirsk starts 6-month mission in space IN DEPTH: International Space Station INTERACTIVE: International Space Station Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca