http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/titanosaur-possibly-biggest-dinosaur-ever-unearthed-in-argentina-1.2646649
Titanosaur, possibly biggest dinosaur ever, unearthed in Argentina | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Titanosaur, possibly biggest dinosaur ever, unearthed in Argentina Social Sharing Technology & Science·Video Titanosaur, possibly biggest dinosaur ever, unearthed in Argentina Scientists in Argentina have unearthed fossils belonging to what they believe was the largest dinosaur ever - a long-necked species of Titanosaur that would have roamed the Earth some 95 million years ago. Social Sharing Fossils of 40-metre-long beast believed to be 95 million years old CBC News · Posted: May 17, 2014 10:15 PM ET | Last Updated: May 19, 2014 Scientists in Argentina have unearthed the remains of what could be the largest creature ever to walk the earth 6:07 comments Scientists in Argentina have unearthed fossils belonging to what they believe was the largest dinosaur ever, a long-necked species of Titanosaur that would have roamed the Earth some 95 million years ago. Diego Pol, a paleontologist at the Egidio Feruglio Museum in Patagonia, tells CBC News from Sao Paulo, Brazil, that his team of researchers was astonished to find the remains so intact. As for how large the prehistoric giant would have been? Picture something as heavy as 14 African elephants and as long as 40 metres, surpassing the height of Rio de Janeiro's famous mountaintop Christ the Redeemer statue. Click on the video player above to watch the full interview with Pol. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca