https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/ancient-humans-voice-baboons-1.3932197
Baboon calls provide clues to ancient human voices: scientists | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Baboon calls provide clues to ancient human voices: scientists Social Sharing Technology & Science Baboon calls provide clues to ancient human voices: scientists Baboon grunts and mating calls may hold secrets about human speech, according to a new study suggesting that the origins of human language could reach back as far as 25 million years. Social Sharing Researchers says sounds made by Guinea baboons reveal distinct human-like vowel sounds The Associated Press · Posted: Jan 12, 2017 10:14 AM ET | Last Updated: January 12, 2017 Researchers say baboons can make human-like vowel sounds, which they say could lead to a better understanding of the evolution of human speech. (Ariel Schalit/Associated Press) Baboon grunts and mating calls may hold secrets about human speech, according to a new study suggesting that the origins of human language could reach back as much as 25 million years. The barks, yacks and wa-hoos of the Guinea baboons reveal distinct human-like vowel sounds, according to the study published Wednesday in the journal Plos One by scientists from six universities in France and Alabama. Fossil jawbone pushes back human evolution at least 400,000 years Popular theory on how humans populated North America can't be right, study shows The authors, led by Dr. Louis-Jean Boe of Grenoble Alpes University, studied the acoustics of 1,335 baboon sounds and the animals' tongue anatomy. They cast doubt on theories that language developed only after the appearance of humanoids with a low larynx. Instead, they say their research suggests that the human vocal system developed from abilities already present in common ancestors such as the Guinea baboon. They also found similar muscles in baboon tongues as human tongues — which are key to our ability to make vowel sounds. "Language is a key difference between humans and the rest of the natural world, but the origin of our speech remains one of the greatest mysteries of science," the scientists wrote. "The evidence developed in this study does not support the hypothesis of the recent, sudden, and simultaneous appearance of language and speech in modern Homo sapiens," the study says. "It suggests that spoken languages evolved from ancient articulatory skills already present in our last common ancestor … about 25 million years ago." The authors say the findings "reveal a loose parallel between human vowels" and baboon vocalizations produced in such communications as sounding alarm or calling to copulate. Just part of the equation A similar study on monkeys published last year also identified five vowels suggesting a link to the origins of human language. Professor Scott Moisik of the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics in the Netherlands, who was not involved in the study, said its findings fit with other research — and his own experience listening to primates at zoos and in online animal videos. "When I hear a cat on YouTube produce a vocalization that very much sounds like 'oh long Johnson,' or the 'no no no' cat, or a dog that gets pretty darned close in imitating 'I love you' … I am led to believe that, to use the words of Boe and company, 'speech precursors' (however rudimentary or limited) go back further than 25 million years ago," he said in an email to The Associated Press. He and colleague Dan Dediu noted that vowels are just part of the equation — and called for more research on tougher to make consonants. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Human ancestor 'Lucy' was tree climber, new study shows Red Deer Cave thigh bone suggests prehistoric humans survived until recently As a species, humans inherit murderous tendencies, says study External Links PLOS One Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca