https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/researchers-to-track-movement-of-arctic-ice-island-1.683892
Researchers to track movement of Arctic ice island | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Researchers to track movement of Arctic ice island Social Sharing Technology & Science Researchers to track movement of Arctic ice island Scientists have placed a beacon on an ice island the size of Manhattan to track its movement through Arctic waters. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: May 22, 2007 11:49 AM ET | Last Updated: May 22, 2007 Scientists have placed a beacon on an ice island the size of Manhattan to track its movement through Arctic waters. Researchers Luke Copland from the University of Ottawa and Derek Mueller from the University of Alaska Fairbanks landed Tuesday on the chunk of ice, according to a BBC news team that accompanied the scientists. The researchers planted a tracking beacon on the surface of the ice island, which is 16 kilometres long and five kilometres wide,and conducted a series of measurements. They found the average thickness of the ice was between 42 and 45 metres, slightly thicker than expected, the BBC reported. The ice island has been a cause for concern for climate scientists since it broke off Ellesmere Island in 2005. For at least 3,000 years, the gigantic block of ice was a part of the Ayles ice shelf, which lies about 800 kilometres south of the North Pole. But in less than an hour on Aug. 13, 2005, the fragment broke off. Its current location is about 600 kilometres from the North Pole, a region scientists say is one of the most rapidly warming areas on Earth. Cracks appearing in the polar ice around the Ayles ice island and areas of open water have researchers concerned the fragment could soon be on the move. The satellite-tracking beacon will allow researchers to follow the ice island's path should it break through the polar ice and continue to drift southwest. A website run by the Canadian Ice Service, which has pictures of the ice island from April, will begin marking the beacon's location in the next few days. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Arctic ice shelf collapse poses risk: expert Ayles Ice Shelf Collapses External Links University of Ottawa: Laboratory for cryospheric research University of Ottawa: Laboratory for cryospheric research Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca