https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/weather-delays-nasa-rocket-test-1.799619
Weather delays NASA rocket test | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Weather delays NASA rocket test Social Sharing Technology & Science Weather delays NASA rocket test The scheduled launch of a NASA test rocket has been postponed until Wednesday because of high winds and clouds. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Oct 27, 2009 8:18 AM ET | Last Updated: October 27, 2009 The scheduled launch of a NASA test rocket Tuesday morning was postponed until Wednesday because of high winds and clouds. The launch team for the Ares I-X rocket is making preparations for another launch window Wednesday morning between 8 a.m. and noon ET. The launch time for the Ares I-X was pushed back several times Tuesday, for a minor communication problem, a stuck Velcro cover on the top of the rocket and a ship that wandered into the launch danger zone off Cape Canaveral. The countdown began around 9:45 a.m. ET, but the weather officer cut off the launch with under three minutes to go. The weather continued to cause delays throughout the morning, until the launch was finally scrubbed around 11:30 a.m. No astronauts on board NASA had scheduled a launch window from 8 a.m. until noon ET. The 98-metre Ares rocket is on the launch pad at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida. The test launch will help NASA's engineers determine if the design can withstand the extreme stresses that occur during liftoff. The rocket's experimental flight is expected to last about two minutes. The first-stage booster will fall into the Atlantic under parachutes. No astronauts will be on board the rocket. The Ares I-X is the first version of a series of rockets set to carry the U.S. space agency's next-generation Orion spacecraft after the space shuttle fleet is retired in 2010. There are only six scheduled flights left for the shuttles. The Orion-Ares combination is not due to launch with astronauts on board until 2017 at the earliest. That poses a problem for the U.S. contribution to the International Space Station, which is currently scheduled to be decommissioned in 2015. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Weather could delay Ares rocket test Quirks & Quarks: NASA reinvents itself with Ares 1-X — sort of External Links NASA: Ares I-X launch news Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca