https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/james-doohan-s-ashes-lost-in-failed-rocket-launch-1.706427
James Doohan's ashes lost in failed rocket launch | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news James Doohan's ashes lost in failed rocket launch Social Sharing Technology & Science James Doohan's ashes lost in failed rocket launch A privately held rocket company on Wednesday blamed a design error for its latest failure to reach orbit, which caused the loss of three government satellites and human ashes, including the remains of astronaut Gordon Cooper and Star Trek actor James Doohan. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Aug 07, 2008 9:14 AM ET | Last Updated: August 7, 2008 A privately held rocket company on Wednesday blamed a design error for its latest failure to reach orbit, which caused the loss of three government satellites and human ashes, including the remains of astronaut Gordon Cooper and Star Trek actor James Doohan. The two-stage Falcon 1 rocket, which blasted off from a Central Pacific atoll Saturday night, separated as planned on its way to space, but leftover thrust after engine cutoff caused the first stage to collide with the second stage, according to SpaceX, which is based in Hawthorne, Calif. The rocket, containing the remains of 208 people, dropped in the Pacific and was not recovered. The family of Doohan, who played Scotty on Star Trek, could not be reached Wednesday night. A message left with Cooper's widow Suzan Cooper was not immediately returned. Cooper was one of the original Mercury astronauts who set a space endurance record by travelling 3.3 million miles aboard Gemini V in 1965. The rocket also carried three small satellites for NASA and the U.S. Defence Department. It was not immediately known how much the satellites cost. NASA lost a nanosatellite and an experimental solar sail. "Although we were not able to test these payloads in space, NASA … achieved success in these two low-cost missions by rapidly pulling together expertise," the space agency said on its web site. Third miss for SpaceX Saturday's foiled launch was the third miss for SpaceX, which hopes to break into the low-cost space launch business. Its 2006 maiden launch failed due to a fuel line leak. The rocket reached about 300 km above Earth on its second try last year, but its second stage shut off prematurely. The latest attempt used a different engine. SpaceX said the new engine performed flawlessly, but the failure occurred because there was a short time gap — 1.5 seconds — between engine shutdown and stage separation. Neither stage exploded, but they "got a little bit cooked," said internet entrepreneur Elon Musk, who founded SpaceX in 2002. Musk said the problem could be easily fixed by increasing the timing between the two steps. Engineers did not detect the problem during testing because it was done at sea level, Musk said. SpaceX plans to launch another Falcon 1 as early as next month. Besides the Falcon 1, SpaceX is developing a larger launch vehicle for NASA, Falcon 9, capable of flying to the International Space Station when the current space shuttle fleet retires in 2010. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca