https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/global-warming-could-create-oceanic-dead-zones-study-1.840359
Global warming could create oceanic 'dead zones': study | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Global warming could create oceanic 'dead zones': study Social Sharing Technology & Science Global warming could create oceanic 'dead zones': study Unabated global warming could lead to a serious depletion of oxygen in the world's oceans, creating "dead zones" that could remain for thousands of years, purging some areas of advanced marine life, a new study says. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jan 26, 2009 1:35 PM ET | Last Updated: January 26, 2009 Unabated global warming could lead to a serious depletion of oxygen in the world's oceans, creating "dead zones" that could remain for thousands of years, purging some areas of advanced marine life, a new study says. Low-oxygen areas known as dead zones are now typically limited to coastal areas, where excess fertilizer runoff causes greater growth of algae in water. When the algae decomposes, it consumes much of the oxygen in the water, leaving the area unable to support much aquatic life. The study, published Sunday in the journal Nature Geoscience by researchers at the University of Copenhagen, says global warming could expand these low-oxygen areas. "Such expansion would lead to increased frequency and severity of fish and shellfish mortality events, for example off the west coasts of the continents like off Oregon and Chile," lead researcher Gary Shaffer said in a statement. Warming leads to reduced ocean water circulation and diminishes the ability of oxygen to dissolve in sea water, the study says. As time goes on, these effects are amplified by the Earth's progressively increasing sensitivity to temperature and emissions. "We conclude that substantial reductions in fossil-fuel use over the next few generations are needed if extensive ocean oxygen depletion for thousands of years is to be avoided," the study says. The study used a computer model to simulate global warming in over the next 100,000 years. The worst-case scenario — if emissions continue at their current rate — would have carbon dioxide concentrations increase to 1,168 ppm by 2100, a three-fold increase. In this situation, dead zones could grow to a fifth of the world's oceanic area. Even if humankind stops emissions after 2100, it could take 2,000 years for the oceans to recover, the study says. The depletion of oxygen causes the ocean to be stripped of nutrients, the study says. This leads to large, unpredictable changes in the oceans' ecosystem structure, perhaps even calling into doubt the ocean as a source of food, the authors say. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories More ethanol will expand Gulf of Mexico 'dead zone': report Scientists probe Lake Erie's dead zones Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca