https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/tree-planting-climate-change-1.5201102
Best way to fight climate change? Plant a trillion trees | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Best way to fight climate change? Plant a trillion trees Social Sharing Technology & Science Best way to fight climate change? Plant a trillion trees The most effective way to fight global warming is to plant lots of trees, a trillion of them, maybe more, according to a new study. And there's enough room, Swiss scientists say. Social Sharing This is by far — by thousands of times — the cheapest climate change solution, study co-author says The Associated Press · Posted: Jul 05, 2019 10:29 AM ET | Last Updated: July 5, 2019 Young Macedonians plant seedling on the Vodno mountain near the capitol Skopje, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. A new study estimates that planting a trillion new trees could suck up nearly 750 billion tonnes of heat-trapping carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. (Georgi Licovski/EPA) comments The most effective way to fight global warming is to plant lots of trees, a trillion of them, maybe more, according to a new study. Swiss scientists also say that even with existing cities and farmland, there's enough space for new trees to cover nine million square kilometres, roughly the size of the United States. Their report is in Thursday's edition of the journal Science. The study calculated that over the decades, those new trees could suck up nearly 750 billion tonnes of heat-trapping carbon dioxide from the atmosphere — about as much carbon pollution as humans have spewed in the past 25 years. A female adult jaguar sits atop a tree at the Mamiraua Sustainable Development Reserve in Uarini, Amazonas state, Brazil. Planting more trees could also preserve biodiversity, scientists say. (Bruno Kelly/Reuters) Much of that benefit will come quickly because trees remove more carbon from the air when they are younger, the study authors said. The potential for removing the most carbon is in the tropics. Canada has lots of room for trees "This is by far — by thousands of times — the cheapest climate change solution" and the most effective, said study co-author Thomas Crowther, a climate change ecologist at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich. Russia, the United States, Canada, Australia, Brazil and China have the most room for new trees, the report said. Before his research, Crowther figured there were other more effective ways to fight climate change besides cutting emissions, such as people switching from eating meat to vegetarianism. But, he said, tree planting is far more effective because trees take so much carbon dioxide out of the air. What on Earth? Better lawns and gardens: Creating an environmentally friendly yard Startling UN biodiversity report is a reminder of the risks Canada faces Thomas Lovejoy, a conservation biologist at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., who wasn't part of the study, called it "a good news story" because planting trees would also help stem the loss of biodiversity. A worker plants seedlings for reforestation at Huayquecha Biological Station near Paucartambo, Cusco. Trees remove more carbon from the air when they are younger, the study authors said. The potential for removing the most carbon is in the tropics. (Enrique Castro-Mendivil/Reuters) Planting trees is not a substitute for weaning the world off burning oil, coal and gas, the chief cause of global warming, Crowther emphasized. "None of this works without emissions cuts." Nor is it easy or realistic to think the world will suddenly go on a tree-planting binge, although many groups have started , Crowther said. "It's certainly a monumental challenge, which is exactly the scale of the problem of climate change." As Earth warms, and especially as the tropics dry, tree cover is being lost, he noted. Pine trees are pictured on the International Day of Forests in the Landes forest near Le Pyla, France March 21, 2019. Researchers estimate that even with existing cities and farmland, there's enough space for new trees to cover 9 million square kilometres around the globe or about the area of the United States. (Regis Duvignau/Reuters) The researchers used Google Earth to see what areas could support more trees, while leaving room for people and crops. Lead author Jean-François Bastin estimated there's space for at least one trillion more trees, but it could be 1.5 trillion. That's on top of the three trillion trees now on Earth, according to earlier Crowther research. 'Building back better' and other tips for adapting to climate change Editor's Note Why CBC News is doing a series on climate change The study's calculations make sense, said Chris Field, an environmental scientist at Stanford University in California who also wasn't part of the study. "But the question of whether it is actually feasible to restore this much forest is much more difficult," Field said in an email. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories What on Earth? Planting more trees 'one of the best things we can do' to reduce carbon in the air 'Building back better' and other tips for adapting to climate change Canada's economy would be less hurt by climate change than other countries, Moody's says Editor's Note Why CBC News is doing a series on climate change Analysis Canada's forests actually emit more carbon than they absorb — despite what you've heard on Facebook CLIMATE CHANGE In our backyard: What climate change in Canada looks like Glass domes help forecast the fate of Canada's boreal forests External Links Summary of the paper in Science Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca