https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/global-warming-increasing-spread-of-dead-zones-in-oceans-rivers-1.2829987
Global warming increasing spread of dead zones in oceans, rivers | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Global warming increasing spread of dead zones in oceans, rivers Social Sharing Technology & Science Global warming increasing spread of dead zones in oceans, rivers Global warming is likely playing a bigger role than previously thought in dead zones in oceans, lakes and rivers around the world, and it's only going to get worse, according to a new study. Social Sharing Fertilizer runoff and warming clog waters with nutrients and deprive marine life of oxygen The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 10, 2014 1:07 PM ET | Last Updated: November 10, 2014 A duck swims in Lake Michigan's Green Bay near an accumulation of algae. The bay is one of the many bodies of water that have developed dead zones, areas where fertilizer and wastewater runoff has created excessive levels of nutrients that build up microbes but deprive marine life of oxygen. A new study has found that global warming is a making the problem of dead zones worse. (Jim Matthews/Press-Gazette/Associated Press) comments Global warming is likely playing a bigger role than previously thought in dead zones in oceans, lakes and rivers around the world and it's only going to get worse, according to a new study. Dead zones occur when fertilizer runoff clogs waterways with nutrients, such as nitrogen and phosphorous. That leads to an explosion of microbes that consumes oxygen and leaves the water depleted of oxygen, harming marine life. We've underestimated the effect of climate change on dead zones. - Andrew Altieri, lead study author Scientists have long known that warmer water increases this problem, but a new study Monday in the journal Global Change Biology by Smithsonian Institution researchers found about two dozen different ways — biologically, chemically and physically — that climate change worsens the oxygen depletion. "We've underestimated the effect of climate change on dead zones," said study lead author Andrew Altieri, a researcher at the Smithsonian's tropical centre in Panama. Warming in Gulf of St. Lawrence The researchers looked at 476 dead zones worldwide — 264 in the United States. They found that standard computer climate models predict that, on average, the surface temperature around those dead zones will increase by slightly more than two degrees Celsius from the 1980s and 1990s to the end of this century. The largest predicted warming is nearly 4 C where the St. Lawrence River dumps into the ocean in Canada. The most prominent U.S. dead zones, the Gulf of Mexico and the Chesapeake Bay, are projected to warm 2.3 C and nearly 2.7 C, respectively. Global warming exacerbates the problem of oxygen depletion caused by runoff because warmer waters hold less oxygen. The excess of microbes and lack of oxygen in dead zones harm fish and other marine life. (Andrew Altieri/Smithsonian Institution/ Associated Press) Warmer water holds less oxygen, adding to the problem from runoff, said co-author Keryn Gedan, who is at both the Smithsonian and the University of Maryland. But warmer water also affects dead zones by keeping the water more separate, so that oxygen-poor deep water mixes less. "It's like Italian dressing that you haven't shaken, where you have the oil and water separate," Altieri said. When the water gets warmer, marine life's metabolism increases, making them require more oxygen just as the oxygen levels are already dropping. Other ways that climate change affects dead zones includes longer summers, ocean acidification and changing wind and current patterns, the study said. Donald Boesch, a University of Maryland ecologist who wasn't part of the study and works at a different department than Gedan, said there is not enough evidence to say that climate change has already played such a big role in the spread of dead zones. But he said the study is probably right in warning that future warming will make the problem even worse. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Extinctions feared as ocean dead zones grow 'Dead-zone' microbe measures ocean health Dead Zones (Nature of Things) Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca