http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/ozone-pollution-in-n-america-linked-to-asia-1.957061
Ozone pollution in N. America linked to Asia | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Ozone pollution in N. America linked to Asia Social Sharing Technology & Science Ozone pollution in N. America linked to Asia Ozone levels over the west coast of North America are rising because of air streams carrying the pollutant from Asia, an international team of researchers says. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jan 20, 2010 1:39 PM ET | Last Updated: January 20, 2010 Ozone levels over the west coast of North America are rising because of air streams carrying the pollutant from Asia, an international team of researchers says. The analysis of springtime ozone data collected since 1984 indicates the U.S. may be unable to reach its Clean Air Act goals because of ozone emissions from overseas. Ozone is an essential component of the upper atmosphere, filtering ultraviolet light from the sun. At ground level, though, it is a pollutant created when chemicals released when fossil fuels that are burned react with sunlight. Ozone is a component of smog and can cause respiratory illnesses in people and can damage crops, as well as plants in natural ecosystems. "In springtime, pollution from across the hemisphere, not nearby sources, contributes to the ozone increases above western North America," said Owen Cooper of the Co-operative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences at the University of Colorado at Boulder. The study, published this week in the journal Nature, used data collected in the spring because previous research found that airflow from Asia to North America is highest in the spring, meaning the pollution effects would be more pronounced and measurable. High-altitude tests The researchers used 100,000 ozone measurements collected from research balloons and aircraft, between three and eight kilometres above the ground — below the ozone layer, but above ground-level pollution. A large share of the data came from instruments installed on commercial aircraft, a program European scientists started in 1994. Most of the data were collected between 1995 and 2008, but the scientists also used a large set of ozone measurements from 1984. Nine research institutes, including the Meteorological Service of Canada, used global atmospheric wind records and computer modelling to match each ozone reading with data on air flow collected several days before the ozone recording. In this way, the scientists tracked the ozone back to a broad region of origin. They found that springtime ozone level increased 14 per cent from 1995 to 2008. When the data from 1984 were included, the results showed an increase of 29 per cent over those years. "This study did not quantify how much of the ozone increase is solely due to Asia," Cooper said. "But we can say that the background ozone entering North America increased over the past 14 years and probably over the past 25 years." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories The dirt on smog Breathing smog over long-term can lead to an early grave: study Traffic pollution makes asthma symptoms worse in children: study Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca