https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/indian-moon-probe-nears-lunar-orbit-1.700071
Indian moon probe nears lunar orbit | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Indian moon probe nears lunar orbit Social Sharing Technology & Science Indian moon probe nears lunar orbit India's first unmanned lunar mission made a final manoeuvre on Tuesday morning, putting it on target to enter orbit around the moon on Saturday, India's space agency said. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Nov 04, 2008 2:14 PM ET | Last Updated: November 4, 2008 India's first unmanned lunar mission made a final manoeuvre on Tuesday morning, putting it on target to enter orbit around the moon on Saturday, India's space agency said. The Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft was successfully launched on Oct. 22 from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre on the island of Sriharikota, off the Bay of Bengal. On Tuesday morning, the spacecraft raised its orbit after firing its engine for two and half minutes. The manoeuvre will put the spacecraft on a looping trajectory that will take it some 380,000 km from Earth. The spacecraft, which had a takeoff weight of more than 1.3 tonnes, is scheduled to orbit the moon on a two-year mission. So far, its systems have performed well, the Indian Space Research Organization — the country's state-run space agency — said Tuesday. The probe will enter a lunar orbit at a distance of about 100 km from the surface of the moon on Saturday, Nov. 8. The rocket is carrying 11 scientific payloads: five from India, two from the U.S. and one each from Britain, Germany, Sweden and Bulgaria. India's space agency said the probe would map a three-dimensional atlas of the moon and study the chemical and mineral composition of its surface. India is the third Asian country to send an unmanned mission into lunar orbit, as Japan and China both successfully launched lunar probes in 2007. The United States, Europe and the former Soviet Union have also sent probes that have orbited or landed on the moon. The launch of Chandrayaan-1 is the first step of the country's long-term ambitions to conduct a manned moon mission by 2020. India has also announced plans for the launch of Chandrayaan-2 — which is expected to land a rover on the moon by 2012 — and a manned space mission by 2015 using Indian systems and technology. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories India launches unmanned moon mission India launches satellite into space India plans to blast astronaut into space External Links Indian Space Research Organisation Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca