https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/hobbit-fossil-dwarf-or-new-species-1.590712
'Hobbit' fossil: dwarf or new species? | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news 'Hobbit' fossil: dwarf or new species? Social Sharing Technology & Science 'Hobbit' fossil: dwarf or new species? Primatologist challenges the new species status of the "Hobbit," fossils of a tiny human found in Indonesia. Its actually someone with a genetic illness that causes dwarfism, challenger says. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: May 18, 2006 2:41 PM ET | Last Updated: May 18, 2006 The "Hobbit" fossils of a tiny human found in Indonesia aren't those of a new species,a primatologist proposes, but actually someone with a genetic illness that causes dwarfism. Paleontologists announced the discovery of what appeared to be an adult female less than one metre tall in 2004. The team considered the skeleton, named LB1, to be a member of a new species derived from Homo erectus. Prof. Mike Morwood, of the University of New England in Armidale, Australia, proposedthe species designation Homo floresiensis. But the fossil became known as the "Hobbit" in the press, after the diminutive characters in J.R.R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings series. Primatologist Robert Martin of the Field Museum in Chicago and his colleagues challenge the creature's species designation in a technical comment published in Friday's issue of the journal Science. "The tiny cranial capacity of LB1, which is smaller than in any other known hominid younger than three million years old, is demonstrably far too small to have been derived from Homo erectus by normal dwarfing," Martin said in a release. Given the tiny brain size and the sophisticated nature of the stone tools found with the fossil, only modern humans such as Homo sapiens could have crafted them, Martin's team said. Rather, LB1 appears to be a modern human with microcephaly, a disorder that results in a small brain size. Its brain is only 380 cubic centimetres. LB1's brain should be compared to that of an adult, not a young microcephalic as done in the original paper, the challengers said. Authors of the original paper defended their work, saying Martin's calculations were based on dwarf versions of other animals and may not apply to early humans. Other bones found at the site suggest LB1 belonged to a population of early dwarfs, with a body mass, brain size and short legs similar to those found on other isolated islands, Morwood's teamsaid. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Jaw-dropping fossils more proof of 'hobbits' Of Humans and Chimps, CBC Radio's Quirks & Quarks (May 20, 2006) External Links Science Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca