https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/nasa-studies-inflatable-heat-shield-for-mars-landing-1.2889075
NASA studies inflatable heat shield for Mars landing | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news NASA studies inflatable heat shield for Mars landing Social Sharing Technology & Science NASA studies inflatable heat shield for Mars landing Something as simple as a child's toy design might help NASA scientists solve the complex problem of landing astronauts on Mars. Social Sharing Larger spacecraft needed for voyage to Red Planet requires new technology The Associated Press · Posted: Jan 03, 2015 5:28 PM ET | Last Updated: January 5, 2015 Technicians work on a Hypersonic Inflatable Aerodynamic Decelerator, background, made up of high-tech fabric rings similar to those seen in the foreground, at NASA Langley research centre in Hampton, Va. (NASA Langley/Kathy Barnstorff/AP) comments Something as simple as a child's toy design might help NASA scientists solve the complex problem of landing astronauts on Mars. Safely landing a large spacecraft on the Red Planet is just one of many engineering challenges the agency faces as it eyes an ambitious goal of sending humans into deep space later this century. NASA ponders airship city above Venus Orion spacecraft helps NASA prepare for future Mars journey At NASA's Langley Research Center in Hampton, Va., engineers have been working to develop a lightweight inflatable heat shield that looks a lot like a super-sized version of a stacking ring of doughnuts that infants play with. The engineers believe it could be deployed to slow the craft as it enters a Martian atmosphere much thinner than Earth's. Such an inflatable heat shield could help a spacecraft reach the high-altitude southern plains of Mars and other areas that would otherwise be inaccessible with existing technology. The experts note that rockets alone can't be used to land a large craft on Mars as can be done on the moon, which has no atmosphere. Parachutes also won't work for a large spacecraft needed to send humans to Mars, they add. Inflatable rings Hence the inflatable rings, known as the Hypersonic Inflatable Aerodynamic Decelerator, which would be filled with nitrogen and covered with a thermal blanket. Once deployed for landing, the rings would sit atop the spacecraft, somewhat resembling a giant mushroom. "We try to not use propulsion if we don't have to," said Neil Cheatwood, the senior engineer at Langley for advanced entry, descent and landing systems. "We make use of that atmosphere as much as we can, because it means we don't have to carry all that fuel with us." NASA rover finds methane, organic chemicals on Mars Antares space rocket explodes shortly after launch NASA's leaders acknowledge that getting humans safely to and from Mars as early as the 2030s will poses extreme challenges. The agency's scientists acknowledge they also must design new in-space propulsion systems, advanced spacesuits, long-term living habitats aboard spacecraft — even communication systems for deep space. Work is proceeding, sometimes fitfully. When an unmanned private rocket destined for the International Space Station exploded in October soon after liftoff from Wallops Island, Va., numerous scientific experiments went up in flames with it. But one NASA experiment that Orbital Sciences Corp. originally invited aboard — for a second-generation inflatable spacecraft — was not ready in time for the flight, NASA officials say. That experiment, which calls for testing how second-generation inflatable spacecraft technology performs upon re-entry in Earth's atmosphere, is now scheduled to go up on the next Antares rocket in 2016. New technology New technology is needed to get astronauts to Mars because the type of spacecraft that would land humans would be much larger than anything that's landed on the planet previously. Current heat-shield technology weighs too much to be used on larger spacecraft. NASA has relied on parachute-based deceleration on Mars since the Viking program in the 1970s. "The idea is that you would have something that could be packed up, put in a very small volume and then deployed into a very large size," Anthony Calomino, principal investigator for materials and structures for hypersonic re-entry at Langley. Smaller scale, inflatable experiments have been launched on rockets before, but never into orbit. The information gathered from those earlier projects will be applied to the upcoming, larger-scale experiment in 2016. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories NASA rover finds methane, organic chemicals on Mars Orion spacecraft helps NASA prepare for future Mars journey NASA ponders airship city above Venus Antares space rocket explodes shortly after launch Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca