https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/hollande-us-climate-deal-1.3851500
Ban Ki-moon, Hollande call on U.S. to respect Paris climate deal | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Ban Ki-moon, Hollande call on U.S. to respect Paris climate deal Social Sharing Technology & Science Ban Ki-moon, Hollande call on U.S. to respect Paris climate deal French President Francois Hollande on Tuesday urged the United States to respect the "irreversible" Paris Agreement on climate change, and said France will lead a dialogue on the topic with President-elect Donald Trump "on behalf of the 100 countries that have ratified" the deal. Social Sharing The international community is calling on president-elect Donald Trump to reconsider stance on climate change The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 15, 2016 11:02 AM ET | Last Updated: November 15, 2016 French President Francois Hollande on Tuesday urged the United States to respect the "irreversible" Paris Agreement on climate change, and said France will lead a dialogue on the topic with President-elect Donald Trump "on behalf of the 100 countries that have ratified" the deal. Speaking to a United Nations climate conference in Morocco, Hollande praised President Barack Obama for his role in getting the landmark deal adopted by more than 190 countries in the French capital last year. "The United States, the most powerful economy in the world, the second-largest emitter of greenhouse gases, must respect the commitments that were made," he said. "It's not simply their duty, it's in their interest." How a 2 C temperature increase could change the planet Coming Trump presidency won't alter Alberta climate plan Scientists say oil and other fossil fuels are the biggest contributors to man-made warming. Trump, however, has called global warming a "hoax" and pledged during his campaign to "cancel" the Paris deal. Earlier, U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said he hopes Trump will shift his course on global warming and "understand the seriousness and urgency" of addressing the problem. We have no right to gamble with the fate of future generations — or imperil the survival of other species that share our planet. - U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon "As president of the United States, I'm sure that he will understand this, he will listen and he will evaluate his campaign remarks," Ban told reporters in Marrakech. The Paris Agreement was signed by more than 190 countries and has been formally approved by more than 100 of them, including the United States and even oil-rich Saudi Arabia. Ban called international climate action "unstoppable" and said that no country, "however resourceful or powerful," is immune from the impacts of global warming. "We have no right to gamble with the fate of future generations — or imperil the survival of other species that share our planet," Ban told the conference. Trump win the 'most miserable U.S. election result' for fighting climate change, scientists say World's lakes are warming surprisingly quickly due to climate change Trump's election has created uncertainty about the U.S. role in the Paris deal, which calls on all countries to reduce or curb their greenhouse gas emissions and encourages rich countries to help poor ones deal with climate change. King Mohammed VI of Morocco urged delegates at the conference to translate their commitments into actions. "What's at stake is the very existence of man," the king said. "It is therefore our joint duty to work hand in hand to protect humanity." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories 2016 on track to beat heat record despite slowdown in CO2 emissions Australia ratifies greenhouse gas targets set in Paris If Trump cancels Paris deal, U.S. emissions will stay flat through 2030, scientists say 2016 on track to beat heat record despite slowdown in CO2 emissions Young scientists pen letter to Trudeau urging environmental assessment overhaul Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca