http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/hobbit-species-evolved-with-small-skull-researchers-1.975475
'Hobbit' species evolved with small skull: researchers | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news 'Hobbit' species evolved with small skull: researchers Social Sharing Technology & Science 'Hobbit' species evolved with small skull: researchers The small skull of a diminutive hominid fossil found on a remote island in Indonesia seven years ago is consistent with primate evolution and not likely the result of disease, researchers say. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jan 26, 2010 7:23 PM ET | Last Updated: January 27, 2010 The small skull of a diminutive hominid fossil found on a remote island in Indonesia seven years ago is consistent with primate evolution and not likely the result of disease, researchers say. Scientists at Cambridge and Durham universities in Britain say the tiny brain cases of Homo floresiensis, a small hominid species first found in 2003 are part of the normal evolution of the species. The species was dubbed "the hobbit" after the diminutive creatures in J.R.R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings series of novels. The hobbit's tiny brain has sparked a debate among paleontologists, with some saying the size could be the result of a hormone deficiency or other disease. The researchers used body and brain size data from 60 living and extinct primate species, including humans, and mapped the evolution of these traits over time. They found that while both absolute brain size and brain size relative to body size generally increase over time, in some branches of the evolutionary tree, brain size did not decrease. "We conclude that, while [natural] selection has acted to enlarge primate brains, in some lineages this trend has been reversed," the researchers wrote in their study, published this week in BMC Biology. "Under reasonable assumptions, the reduction in brain size during the evolution of Homo floresiensis is not unusual in comparison to these other primates," said Nick Mundy of Cambridge's department of zoology, in a statement. Since its discovery on the Indonesian island of Flores in 2003, the fossil, known as LB1, has become the subject of intense scrutiny and debate in the scientific community. LB1 consists of the remains of an adult female less than one metre tall with a brain the size of a grapefruit. The remains are estimated to date back some 15,000 to 18,000 years. Critics have suggested the fossil's skull was too small to have accommodate a brain with the tool-making intelligence attributed to the humanoid after stone-flaking technology was found at the same site. An article in Science in 2006 suggested the skull of LB1 was likely to be found in someone with a genetic illness that causes dwarfism. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories The Nature of Things: The Hobbit Enigma Australian researchers cast doubt 'Hobbit' fossil was new species Wrists of 'hobbit' fossil suggest new species 'Hobbit' species made their own tools, scientists say 'Hobbit' fossil: dwarf or new species? Jaw-dropping fossils more proof of 'hobbits' Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca