http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/monarch-butterfly-population-rebounding-after-record-low-1.2786440
Monarch butterfly population rebounding after record low | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Monarch butterfly population rebounding after record low Social Sharing Technology & Science Monarch butterfly population rebounding after record low Scientists predict that at least twice as many monarchs will be wintering in Mexico this year compared to last year, when the population fell to a historic low. Social Sharing U.S. data show 'light recovery' amid threats to milkweed and forest habitats The Associated Press · Posted: Oct 03, 2014 8:40 AM ET | Last Updated: October 3, 2014 The monarch butterfly population has declined from a recorded high of approximately one billion in the mid-1990s to only 35 million butterflies last winter, the lowest number ever recorded. (Associated Press) comments Deforestation is down in the Mexican forest that is the winter home of Monarch butterflies, and scientists also hope to see a rebound in the annual migration after it fell to historic lows last year, an expert said Thursday. Omar Vidal of the World Wildlife Fund said two to three times more Monarchs may arrive this year, compared to last year. "The data from the United States indicates a light recovery," Vidal said. "They are calculating that we can expect at least double the number and perhaps triple." Last year, the Monarch population dropped to the lowest level since record-keeping began in 1993, covering just two-thirds of a hectare (1.65 acres) in the pine and fir forests west of Mexico City. Monarch butterfly numbers drop to new lows But even if the number of butterflies triples, they would cover only about 2 hectares (5 acres). That would be just over one-tenth of the record high of 18.2 hectares (45 acres) in 1996-97. Millions of the black-and-orange butterflies return to a reserve area each winter, clustering in trees in numbers so great that they are counted not as individuals, but by the amount of acreage they cover. The same generation never lives to make the round trip to summer habitats in the United States and Canada. Watch 'The Great Butterfly Hunt' on CBC's The Nature of Things No small-scale logging in butterfly habitat More good news came from the annual survey experts perform using satellite photos and on-the-ground reconnaissance to check on tree cutting in the reserve. Previous Next Hide caption Toggle Fullscreen1 of 0 Logging threatens the butterflies because it pokes holes in the canopy of fir trees that protect them from cold weather and freezing rains. This year, Vidal said the reserve's 13,550-hectare (33,482-acre) core zone had no small-scale logging, the kind that happens when indigenous communal farmers cut trees for their own use. The communal farms own most of the property in the reserve. "This demonstrates the commitment of the land owners," Vidal said. The indigenous communities receive government support to conserve the forests, and they make some money from reforestation projects and tourists who come to see the butterflies. However, Vidal noted there had been an outbreak of commercial logging in one mountain community, where about 5.2 hectares (13 acres) of trees were cut. Drought killed off nearly three hectares (7.41 acres) of trees, for a total loss of forest cover of about eight hectares (20 acres) in the reserve. That is down from 16.6 hectares (41 acres) of tree loss last year. Vidal said concerns remain about the destruction of milkweed — the plant on which the butterflies lay their eggs — in the United States and Canada. The three countries formed working groups this year to confront problems facing the butterflies, but Vidal said that "in reality, we have not seen concrete actions in the United States and Canada." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Watch 'The Great Butterfly Hunt' on The Nature of Things Monarch butterflies by the thousands at Point Pelee Photos Monarch butterflies in steep decline Monarch butterflies may have magnetic compass Monarch butterfly decline linked to spread of GM crops Monarch butterflies threatened by Mexican logging Monarch butterfly numbers drop by 'ominous' 59% External Links Monarch Watch blog WWF Canada: Monarch Butterfly Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca