https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/climate-change-cod-decline-changing-life-in-atlantic-oceanographer-1.659210
Climate change, cod decline, changing life in Atlantic: oceanographer | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Climate change, cod decline, changing life in Atlantic: oceanographer Social Sharing Technology & Science Climate change, cod decline, changing life in Atlantic: oceanographer Climate change is partly responsible for a rapid change in the ecosystem along the continental shelf waters of the Northwest Atlantic, which has so far been blamed on the collapse of the cod stocks, according to a U.S. oceanographer. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Feb 23, 2007 11:44 AM ET | Last Updated: February 23, 2007 Climate change is partly responsible for a rapid change in the ecosystem along the continental shelf waters of the Northwest Atlantic, which has so far been blamed on the collapse of the cod stocks, according to a U.S. oceanographer. "It is becoming increasingly clear that Northwest Atlantic shelf ecosystems are being tested by climate forcing from the bottom up and overfishing from the top down," said Charles Greene, director of the Ocean Resources and Ecosystems Program at Cornell University. He makes the argument for the role of climate change in the area's changing ecosystem in astudy published Friday in the journal Science. "Predicting the fate of these ecosystems will be one of oceanography's grand challenges for the 21st century," he said. Previous studies of the region have shown the loss of cod had a cascading effect that saw smaller predators including snow crab and herring increase in population. But Greene's analysis of ocean currents suggests climate change might have helped increase the amount offood at the bottom of the chain: free floating phytoplankton and the zooplankton. Climate change caused by global warming has made water in the Northwest Atlantic less salty, he said. Increased precipitation and melting polar ice have sent more fresh water into the ocean, which in turn has been driven into the northwest coastal waters byshifting Arctic wind patterns. The introduction of a cooler current has interfered with the process in which the warmer, less salty summer water on the surface of the ocean cools in the fall and sinks as its density changes to mix with the cooler waters below. Since those surface waters are already being cooled by the new fresh water currents,they sinkgradually rather than rapidly. Without the fall deepening of the surface layer of water, phytoplankton populations receive continued access to the sunlight needed for growth, and they have stayed abundant. In turn, zooplankton, which eats the phytoplankton,have increased during the fall and into the early winter. Greene suggests the rise of these tiny life forms and the subsequent rise in predators normally considered food for the cod, like snow crabs and shrimp, would have happened even had the cod population not collapsed. "We suggest that, with or without the collapse of cod, a bottom-up, climate-driven regime shift would have taken place in the Northwest Atlantic during the 1990s," Greene said. The cold Arctic waters have also made the water off Canada's East Coast inhospitable to the slow-growing cod, Greene told the Boston Globe. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories New species discovered in depths of Atlantic Effects of cod collapse trickle down food chain Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca