https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/successful-spacewalk-on-moon-landing-anniversary-1.800920
Successful spacewalk on moon-landing anniversary | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Successful spacewalk on moon-landing anniversary Social Sharing Technology & Science Successful spacewalk on moon-landing anniversary On the 40th anniversary of Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin's famous touchdown on the surface of the moon, two American astronauts exited the International Space Station to take a spacewalk of their own. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 20, 2009 11:05 AM ET | Last Updated: July 20, 2009 On the 40th anniversary of Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin's famous touchdown on the surface of the moon, two American astronauts exited the International Space Station and successfully completed a spacewalk of their own. David Wolf and Thomas Marshburn began the 215th spacewalk in NASA history on Monday when they stepped outside the station at 11:27 a.m. ET. They wrapped up six hours and 53 minutes later. The duo completed most of their planned tasks, deferring a video camera setup to a future spacewalk. Among other tasks, they removed three pieces of hardware from the station's exterior, before catching a ride on the station's robotic arm to an external stowage platform, where the items were re-attached for long-term storage. Canadian astronaut Julie Payette operated the robotic arm throughout the operation. It was the second spacewalk in three days for the astronauts, who arrived on Friday aboard the space shuttle Endeavour along with five other colleagues, including Canadian astronaut Julie Payette. In terms of glamour, the spacewalk has nothing on NASA's 13th spacewalk, conducted 40 years to the day on Monday, when Armstrong and Aldrin stepped down onto the moon for the first time. Endeavour's astronauts are scheduled to conduct three more spacewalks during their 16-day mission, the main focus of which is to install two platforms outside the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency's Kibo experiment module at the space station. Endeavour's arrival on Friday marked the first time two Canadians have ever worked together in space at the same time. Montreal-born Payette joined Robert Thirsk, a native of New Westminster, B.C., who had travelled to the space station aboard a Russian Soyuz rocket that lifted off from a launch pad in Kazakhstan on May 27. Thirsk, who is living on the station for six months, is the first Canadian to stay aboard the station for an extended period. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Astronauts dream of Mars on moon landing anniversary Endeavour astronauts finish 1st spacewalk Canadians meet at space station PHOTO GALLERY: Endeavour lifts off Payette returns to sounds and smell of space Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca