https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/new-fossil-shows-dinosaur-bird-link-1.311128
New fossil shows dinosaur-bird link | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news New fossil shows dinosaur-bird link Social Sharing Technology & Science New fossil shows dinosaur-bird link A well-preserved, 130-million-year-old fossil of a small dinosaur found in China strengthened the theory that birds evolved from dinosaurs Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Feb 14, 2002 1:05 PM ET | Last Updated: February 14, 2002 A well-preserved, 130-million-year-old fossil of a small dinosaur found in China strengthens the theory that birds evolved from dinosaurs, according to a new study. The dinosaur, called Sinovenator changii, was slightly larger than a chicken and had many bird-like features. "This dinosaur, which was probably feathered, is closely related to and almost the same age as the oldest known bird, Archaeopteryx," said study co-author Peter Makovicky, in a statement. The fossil reveals that structural changes showing evolution from dinosaurs to birds happened much earlier than previously thought, said Makovicky. "These findings help counter, once and for all, the position of paleontologists who argue that birds did not evolve from dinosaurs," said Makovicky. The fossil comes from the Yixian Formation in China, the site of many significant fossil finds, including feathered dinosaurs. The new fossil doesn't include the dinosaur's feathers because it was preserved in a river bank, but the skeleton's three-dimensional structure was left intact. Sinovenator was a troodontid, which is a type of theropod, the group of dinosaurs that includes Tyrannosaurus. Troodontids tended to evolve toward a smaller body size, however. "Although big dinosaurs may be more spectacular, we can acutally learn more about evolution from the often overlooked smaller dinosaurs because they tend to be more primitive," said Makovicky. Troodontids have other features, such as serrated teeth and sickle claws on their feet, that have made them difficult to classify. Paleontologists earlier grouped them with dinosaurs such as the Velociraptor. The study appears in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca