https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/nasa-plans-permanent-outpost-on-moon-by-2024-1.575725
NASA plans permanent outpost on moon by 2024 | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news NASA plans permanent outpost on moon by 2024 Social Sharing Technology & Science NASA plans permanent outpost on moon by 2024 NASA plans to build a base on the moon and permanently staff it by 2024, the space agency announced on Monday. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Dec 05, 2006 11:54 AM ET | Last Updated: December 5, 2006 At one time the moonwas a nice place to visit. Now NASA has decided it wants people to live there. "We're going for a base on the moon," said Scott (Doc) Horowitz, NASA's associate administrator for exploration, in a teleconference from the Johnson Space Center in Houston on Monday. Thespace agency announced plans to build a base on the moon and permanently staff it by 2024, with astronauts staying for up to six months at a time. The habitat will most likely be built on the moon's south pole and will serve as a science outpost and test centre for technologies needed for future expeditions to Mars. The ambitious plan is considered the next phase of space exploration after space shuttles are retired in 2010. It will also take some time to get going. Construction of the base is not set to begin until the first series of flights to the moon scheduled for 2020. The location of the base is a departure from the Apollo missions of the 1960s, when astronauts landedin the middle area of the moon. The south pole was chosen because it is sunlit three-quarters of the time — providing greaterexposurefor solar power — and also has possible resources to mine, said associate deputy administrator Doug Cooke. "This is not your father's Apollo," said John Logsdon, director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University. "I think it's the only way to sustain something like this over decades. This is not flag-and-footprints. This is the idea of starting an outward movement that includes long stays on the moon." NASA will use two vehicles to get to the moon — the Orion exploration vehicle to reach it and the all-purpose lunar lander to touch down and provide the beginnings of base camp. An estimated timeline has NASA testing its first spaceships in 2009, making the first manned flight of Orion in 2014 and landing the first four-person crew in 2020. Earlier this year NASA announced plans to launch a lunar probe in 2009 to search for water and mineral resources. For the first four years of the base, astronauts would only stay a week at a time. After that NASA envisions astronauts staying for six-month stints. In 2004, a year after the space shuttle Columbia accident that killed seven astronauts, U.S. President George W. Bush announced a plan to return astronauts to the moon by 2020, followed by a mission to Mars. Last year NASA said it would cost $104 billion just to get back to the moon for its first trip, but on Monday NASA officials declined to estimate the costs of a permanent base. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories NASA probe to search moon for water External Links Official NASA site: Moon, mars & beyond Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca