https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/antarctic-ozone-hole-sets-size-record-1.624591
Antarctic ozone hole sets size record | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Antarctic ozone hole sets size record Social Sharing Technology & Science Antarctic ozone hole sets size record The size of the hole in the ozone layer over the Antarctic is the largest ever seen, U.S. scientists reported on Friday. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Oct 20, 2006 11:41 AM ET | Last Updated: October 20, 2006 The size of the hole in the ozone layer over the Antarctic is the largest ever seen, U.S. scientists reported on Friday. The average area of the hole was more than 17.4 million square kilometres between Sept. 21 and 30, researchers at NASA and the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) said. Under normal atmospheric conditions, the hole would be about the size of North America, or between 14 million and 15 million square kilometres. The ozone layer blocks harmful ultraviolet light produced by the sun from reaching the Earth's surface. The hole is created by the release of chlorine and bromine gas-related pollutants produced through human activity, which react with ozone. The hole also set a record for depth, with measurements indicating that nearly all of the ozone had been destroyed between about 13 kilometres above the Earth to an altitude of about 21 kilometres. Instruments carried by balloon showed a reading of only 1.2 Dobson Units (DU) by Oct. 9 — down from an average 125 DU outside the hole in July and August. Dobson Units (DU) are a standardized measure of the amount of ozone over a fixed point in the atmosphere. "These numbers mean the ozone is virtually gone in this layer of the atmosphere,"David Hofmann, director of the Global Monitoring Division at the NOAA Earth System Research Laboratory, said in a statement. "The depleted layer has an unusual vertical extent this year, so it appears that the 2006 ozone hole will go down as a record-setter." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Canada in 2020: global warming Climate change facts and figures Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca