http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/warming-lakes-1.3369700
World's lakes are warming surprisingly quickly due to climate change | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news World's lakes are warming surprisingly quickly due to climate change Social Sharing Technology & Science World's lakes are warming surprisingly quickly due to climate change Lakes around the world are warming surprisingly quickly due to climate change, threatening the global water supply. And lakes in Canada are some of the fastest-warming in the world, a new study suggests. Social Sharing Canadian lakes and those that are ice-covered in winter are warming twice as fast as others Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Dec 17, 2015 12:11 PM ET | Last Updated: December 17, 2015 Lakes around the world are warming, and that's expected to lead to an increase in algae blooms like this one on Lake Erie in 2011, which made tap water undrinkable in places like Ohio. (NOAA/Associated Press) comments Lakes around the world are warming surprisingly quickly due to climate change, threatening the global water supply. And lakes in Canada are some of the fastest-warming in the world, a new study shows. The warming waters can lead to problems like toxic algae blooms that make water undrinkable, declines in fish populations that people rely on for food and other serious problems, warns the international team of researchers that released the study this week. "If air temperatures continue to increase and this influences water supply and water quality, that has a huge implication for humans as we need fresh water to survive," said Sapna Sharma, a researcher at Toronto's York University who was one of the lead authors of the report. Sapna Sharma, a researcher at Toronto's York University who was one of the lead authors of the report, said Canadian lakes are warming at twice the global average rate. (Courtesy Sapna Sharma) The study looked at 235 lakes on six continents representing half the world's freshwater supply. Their surface temperatures between 1985 and 2009 had been measured both directly and using satellites. The lakes had different sizes, depths, locations and other characteristics, but despite their variability, "over 90 per cent of them had a clear signal of warming," said Sharma. "I didn't expect to see that." Greenland ice melt speed has doubled 2015 will be hottest year on record — until 2016, WMO predicts The study found that on average, lakes were warming at a rate of 0.34 C per decade — faster than either the ocean (increasing 0.12 C per decade) or the air (warming by 0.25 C per decade), the researchers reported in the journal Geophysical Research Letters and announced at the American Geophysical Union meeting San Francisco Wednesday. "Canadian lakes and ice-covered lakes were warming twice as fast as air temperatures and most of the other lakes in the study," Sharma said in an interview with CBC News. The study found that the rate of warming averaged 0.72 C per decade at high latitudes. Lake Superior warming extra fast One of the big surprises, Sharma added, was that Lake Superior had one of the fastest rates of warming in the world. While smaller lakes might be expected to warm more quickly, a couple of factors are having a particularly strong effect on lakes like Superior. Cliffs run along the coast of Caribou Island on Lake Superior, which was found to be one of the fastest-warming lakes in the world. (Rolf Hicker Photography) One is that lakes that are normally ice-covered in winter are melting earlier in the spring, exposing the lake to warmer air temperatures for a longer period of time. Lake Erie's algae blooms threaten its survival Another, ironically, is that decreased pollution in North America is leading to less smog and cloud cover. "So more solar radiation is hitting the lakes and water temperatures are warming faster than you'd just expect simply [from] climate change," Sharma said. "But hopefully, this will be a short-lived phenomenon." The paper predicts a lot of negative effects linked to the warming: Algal blooms that suck the oxygen out of the lake water, choking out other organisms, are expected to increase 20 per cent over the next century. Algal blooms that are toxic to fish and humans are expected to increase by five per cent over the next century. An increase in emissions of the potent greenhouse gas methane is expected to increase four per cent over the next decade. Increased evaporation will cause a drop in lake water levels. Much of this dry land would be under water when Lake Powell in Arizona is full. Lakes are warming surprisingly quickly, leading to increased evaporation and contributing to lower water levels. (Rick Wilking/Reuters) Sharma said the warming also decreases the amount of habitat available to native cold water fish such as lake trout and walleye, while increasing the likelihood that invasive species will thrive. Africa's Lake Tanganyika hasn't warmed nearly as much as Lake Superior, but is already seeing declines in fish populations that local people rely on for food, Sharma added. In North America, lake levels are already dropping in some of the Great Lakes and algae blooms have already made tap water undrinkable for days at a time in places like Toledo, Ohio. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Greenland ice melt speed has doubled Temperatures in 2015 on track to be record 1 degree C hotter Great Lakes low water levels could cost $19B by 2050 Lake Erie's algae blooms threaten its survival Algae blooms on Lake Erie getting 'difficult to control' External Links NASA news release Summary of the paper in Geophysical Research Letters Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca