https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/malaysia-airlines-flight-mh370-search-shows-extent-of-ocean-trash-1.2594539
Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 search shows extent of ocean trash | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 search shows extent of ocean trash Social Sharing Technology & Science Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 search shows extent of ocean trash Search teams scouring the Indian Ocean for evidence of the missing Malaysia Airlines plane have thus far only come up with unrelated debris. It's an indication of the vast amount of junk floating in the open seas. Social Sharing Ocean junk is largely concentrated in five ocean gyres Andre Mayer · CBC News · Posted: Apr 01, 2014 4:05 PM ET | Last Updated: April 3, 2014 Previous Next Hide caption Toggle Fullscreen1 of 0 comments Search teams scouring the Indian Ocean for pieces of the missing Malaysia Airlines plane thought they had promising clues earlier this week. Turns out, they were only finding bits of abandoned fishing equipment. INFOGRAPHIC: World's oceans threatened by floating trash Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370: Objects seen in jet search not debris Malaysia Airlines MH370: maps, background, search details Last week, a French satellite identified an apparent debris field containing 122 objects. That, too, was inconclusive. These false leads are not only heartbreaking for the families of those who were on board the missing airliner MH370, but give an indication of the vast amount of junk floating in the open seas. "Basically, the world's oceans are plasticized," says Marcus Eriksen, executive director of the 5 Gyres Institute, a conservation group that researches the amount of plastic pollution in the planet's seas. Because of the difficulty of measuring, there are varying estimates of just how much trash is in our oceans. Oceanographer Charles Moore, who works with the Algalita Marine Research Institute in Long Beach, Calif., estimates there could be 200 million tonnes of plastic debris floating in the seas. This calculation is based on the belief that 2.5 per cent of the world's plastic lands in the ocean. Eriksen says there are currently no reliable estimates of the amount of ocean junk worldwide, and he is hoping that a coming report by 5 Gyres will be the first reliable global estimate. 5 Gyres, a group researching the amount of plastic pollution in the oceans, estimates there are over five trillion pieces of plastic debris in the seas. (Cheryl Ravelo/Reuters) It's based on 24 expeditions over the course of six years by six colleagues, and it found that there are nearly 5.25 trillion particles of plastic trash in the oceans, weighing half a million tonnes. "You're going to find some lightbulbs, fluorescent tubes, some wood, some coconuts and seeds, but by and large, it's mostly plastic," says Eriksen. These estimates don't include the detritus that's sitting at the bottom of the oceans, which, as he says, is "virtually unknown." 'Deathtraps for marine animals' One major constituent of ocean junk is fishing gear such as nets and buoys, says Eric Galbraith, an assistant professor in the department of earth and planetary science at McGill University. "Floating nets often come adrift, and cause particularly bad problems because they can be long-lived deathtraps for marine animals," he says. The garbage found at sea comes from a variety of sources. Some of it is deposited in rivers that empty into larger bodies of water, while some is drawn into the ocean during natural disasters like tsunamis. This debris is pushed around by ocean currents. While trash can be found all over the high seas, it has become especially prominent in the five gyres -- large systems of rotating ocean currents that exist between the continents. They include the North Atlantic and South Atlantic gyres, the North Pacific and South Pacific gyres and the Indian Ocean gyre, which is just west of the area where the Malaysia Airlines plane is thought to have gone down. Due to global wind patterns, air continually pushes the surface water of the gyres, and the plastic in it, towards the centres of the ocean basin. But since plastic floats, it just continually returns to the top, and remains more or less in place. "The gyres concentrate the garbage at the surface, just like a filter in a bathtub drain concentrates the hairs from a bath," says Galbraith. The most infamous example of this is what's known as the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. Located between Hawaii and California in the middle of the North Pacific gyre, it was first described by Charles Moore in an article for Natural History magazine in 1993. In photographs, it's a roiling soup of plastic bottles, caps, wrappers and other disposable goods. According to National Geographic magazine, scientists have gathered up to 750,000 bits of plastic in a square kilometre of that patch. Taking out the trash A great deal of garbage is also dumped directly into the oceans by cruise and cargo ships. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (1982) encourages nations to take "all measures necessary to prevent, reduce, and control pollution of the marine environment from any source." Galbraith says that for a long time, there was a general understanding that unless it was chemical waste, it was fine to toss junk from ships into international waters. There are now stricter rules in place. In 2012, the International Maritime Organization adopted measures to prohibit the disposal of plastics anywhere in the sea. "But it takes time to change old habits," says Galbraith. There is also the problem of accidental garbage, like when turbulent weather blows shipping containers overboard, which led to the famous release of 29,000 plastic ducks in the Pacific Ocean in January 1992. The World Shipping Council says about 350 containers are lost at sea each year, although non-industry observers estimate the annual rate to be much higher. "There are a lot of container ships that carry material goods all over the planet, and it turns out that it's cheaper to allow a certain amount of loss off those ships than it is to make sure that they're absolutely storm-proof," says Galbraith. While there has been international debate about how to clean up the trash-strewn corners of the sea, Eriksen says that the very nature of the plastic problem makes it almost impossible. It's been estimated that 93 per cent of those plastic particles bobbing in the seas are about the size of a grain of rice or smaller. "That really makes clean-up very impractical," says Eriksen. "You can't get all these trillions of small particles out of the ocean." Volunteers around the world collect trash and tally up what they find on one day each fall in Ocean Conservancy’s annual International Coastal Cleanup. The resulting item-by-item, location-by-location Ocean Trash Index provides the only snapshot of marine debris littering coasts and waterways around the world, according to Ocean Conservancy. (CBC) CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Infographic World's oceans threatened by floating trash Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370: Objects seen in jet search not debris Photos Abundance of ocean debris complicates search for MH370 Malaysia Airlines MH370: The challenges of a remote ocean search External Links 5 Gyres Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca