https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/species-de-extinction-plagued-by-looming-questions-expert-says-1.2637789
Species de-extinction plagued by 'looming questions,' expert says | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Species de-extinction plagued by 'looming questions,' expert says Social Sharing Technology & Science Species de-extinction plagued by 'looming questions,' expert says De-extinction is one of the most controversial subjects in science today. A debate is raging around the ethics of reviving extinct animals, and whether humans might unleash changes in nature that cannot be undone. Social Sharing Reviving extinct species could be possible sooner than previously thought, research suggests CBC News · Posted: May 09, 2014 3:36 PM ET | Last Updated: May 9, 2014 Woolly mammoths are considered a prime candidate for de-extinction. Last year, researchers at McMaster University announced they had nearly sequenced the entire Wolly mammoth genome. (George Teichmann/Yukon government) comments The potential for bringing back extinct animal species, known as de-extinction, is one of the hottest and most controversial topics in conservation biology today. COMING UP | Axel Moehrenschlager speaks with Quirks & Quarks on Saturday Reviving extinct species within reach, says researcher The issue has divided some of the biggest names in science, with prominent backers like George Church, a professor of genetics at Harvard Medical School, and equally well known detractors, like Paul R. Ehrlich, a professor of population studies at Stanford University, all weighing in publicly on the subject. The debate, in essence, can be distilled to a simple question: just because we can potentially revive extinct species, should we? The answer is not as simple. Axel Moehrenschlager, a biologist at the Centre for Conservation Research at the Calgary Zoo and an associate professor of biology at the University of Calgary, says that de-extinction is a fascinating possibility, but one that should be approached cautiously. What if we bring back something that is actually an excellent vector for diseases, for example, that could affect livestock or other species or ourselves. These are looming questions. - Axel Moehrenschlager, Calgary Zoo conservation biologist “There are potentially many issues in bringing a species back … But our primary concern is, if we were to bring something back, why are we doing it? Are we doing it because it’s something cool to do, or because it’s valuable for the ecosystem?” Moehrenschlager said an interview that airs on CBC’s Quirks & Quarks on Saturday. Moehrenschlager was part of an international team of scientists that published a paper in March in the journal Trends in Ecology and Evolution that outlined 10 vital questions that scientists should ask before selecting candidate species for de-extinction. “One of the things about species – when you put species back – is that they do things in that ecosystem and those things can potentially be useful or could be potentially damaging,” he says. “In some cases bringing a species back could restore an ecological function that has been lost. But in other cases, in the wrong environment, it could make extinct species invasive and very damaging.” Coming undone According to Moehrenschlager, the most important question is, “is this reversible?” In other words, could we undo the reintroduction of a previously extinct species into an ecosystem? It’s a vital question because there may be risks associated with de-extinction that scientists cannot accurately predict. Species extinctions will rise from global warming: study “What if we bring back something that is actually an excellent vector for diseases, for example, that could affect livestock or other species or ourselves?” he says. “These are looming questions.” The process of de-extinction requires using genetic material from an extinct species, and then splicing that DNA with the DNA of a close living relative, to produce offspring that can survive in the wild. Last year, an evolutionary biologist at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ont., announced that his lab was on the verge of sequencing the entirety of the Woolly mammoth’s genome. Woolly mammoths have been extinct for at least 6,000 years, but the research may open to the door to cloning a living specimen, albeit one that also contains some DNA from modern elephants, a close relative. The final product is an animal that is not wholly one species or another, but a new hybrid, which itself raises a whole set of new questions, says Moeherenschlager. “What kind of organism is it? How do we classify it? How do you protect it? If you release it back into the environment, is it now an endangered species that deserves endangered species protection?” he asks. On the verge The de-extinction debate moved from labs and hallways of academic institutions and into the public gaze in March last year, at the TedXDeExtinction conference in Washington D.C., at which some of the field’s most progressive thinkers laid out the case for bringing long-lost species back. Many scientists who attended the event made it clear that they believe de-extinction will be a reality within the next several decades. Indeed in 2009, a Pyrenean ibex – a species that went extinct in 2000 – was born in a laboratory. It survived for only seven minutes, dying of lung complications, but the reported findings rocked the world of conservation biology. While the prospect of de-extinction is deeply fascinating and one that should be taken seriously by the scientific community, Moeherenschlager says, it shouldn’t detract from efforts to conserve the species that remain on Earth today. “We are losing species at such an incredible rate that we need to act now … to make sure we don’t lose the treasure we already have on this planet. We shouldn’t be obsessed with things that have gone extinct in the past and ignore those that are still here.” CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories COMING UP: Axel Moerhenschlager talks to Quirks & Quarks on Saturday, May 10, on CBC Radio One 'De-extinction' of woolly mammoth possible in 30 to 50 years Reviving extinct species within reach, says researcher Replay Discovering the secrets of the ancient world with Hendrik Poinar Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca