https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/nasa-says-ozone-layer-hole-5th-biggest-on-record-1.761323
NASA says ozone layer hole 5th biggest on record | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news NASA says ozone layer hole 5th biggest on record Social Sharing Technology & Science NASA says ozone layer hole 5th biggest on record The hole in the ozone layer over Antarctica this year is the fifth biggest on record, according to the latest data from NASA's atmospheric scientists. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Nov 05, 2008 2:46 PM ET | Last Updated: November 5, 2008 The hole in the ozone layer over Antarctica this year is the fifth biggest on record, according to the latest data from NASA's atmospheric scientists. NASA said on Sept. 12, 2008, the ozone hole reached its annual maximum area of 27.2 million square kilometres, up from last year's 25.1 million square km. By comparison, the total land area of North America is about 24.7 million square km. The hole is considered "moderately large," said NASA atmospheric scientist Paul Newman. The largest ozone hole ever recorded occurred in 2006, at a size of about 27.4 million square kilometres. Ozone, a bluish gas composed of three oxygen atoms, is harmful to breathe, but absorbs ultraviolet radiation that harms living organisms. Its presence in our stratosphere helps keep harmful UV rays originating from the sun from reaching the Earth. The hole typically reaches its maximum extent in September or early October, and then dissipates into smaller parts throughout southern latitudes, affecting the UV exposure in places such as New Zealand, Australia and South America, NASA said. NASA has been monitoring the depletion of ozone above Antarctica through satellite observations since the 1970s. The increasing size of the hole in the 1980s was the motivation behind restrictions on the use of chlorofluorocarbons, or CFCs. Newman said that while the ozone hole is large, the amount of human-produced substances that contribute to its depletion has actually decreased about 3.8 per cent from peak levels set in 2000. In addition to CFCs, the potential harmful substances include hydrochlorofluorocarbons, which have been used as a refrigerant in air conditioners and fridges, and halons, which act as a propellant for fire extinguishers. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories South Pole ozone hole could be largest ever Antarctic ozone hole sets size record IN DEPTH: The end of HCFCs External Links NASA: 2008 Ozone Hole Maximum Announced Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca