http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/homo-sapiens-would-have-encountered-species-when-they-arrived-on-sulawesi-1.3403849
Ancient tools show mysterious human species occupied Indonesian island | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Ancient tools show mysterious human species occupied Indonesian island Social Sharing Technology & Science Ancient tools show mysterious human species occupied Indonesian island The diminutive prehistoric human species dubbed the "Hobbit" that inhabited the isle of Flores apparently had company on other Indonesian islands long before our species, Homo sapiens, arrived on the scene. Social Sharing Homo sapiens would have encountered species when they arrived on Sulawesi Thomson Reuters · Posted: Jan 14, 2016 12:47 PM ET | Last Updated: January 15, 2016 These hard limestone artefacts were found scattered around the Talepu site on the island of Sulawesi, which has a loose, gravelly surface. (Erick Setiabudi) comments The diminutive prehistoric human species dubbed the "Hobbit" that inhabited the isle of Flores apparently had company on other Indonesian islands long before our species, Homo sapiens, arrived on the scene. Scientists on Wednesday announced the discovery of stone tools at least 118,000 years old at a site called Talepu on the island of Sulawesi, indicating a human presence. The scientists said no fossils of these individuals were found in conjunction with the tools, leaving the toolmakers' identity a mystery. Ancient human with close Neanderthal ancestor found in Romania Neanderthal DNA hides in genes dictating our hair, skin Neanderthals' incest, interspecies sex revealed by genome "We now have direct evidence that when modern humans arrived on Sulawesi, supposedly between 60,000 and 50,000 years ago and aided by watercraft, they must have encountered an archaic group of humans that was already present on the island long before," said archeologist Gerrit van den Bergh of University of Wollongong in Australia. The 2004 announcement of the discovery in a Flores cave of fossils of Homo floresiensis, a species about 1.1 metre tall that made tools and hunted little elephants, jolted the scientific community. An excavation site at Talepu, where 118,000-year-old tools were unearthed by archeologists. (Dida Yurnaldi) "Like on Flores, where Homo floresiensis evolved under isolated conditions over a period of almost 1 million years, Sulawesi could also have harbored an isolated human lineage. And the search for fossil remains of the Talepu toolmaker is now open," van den Bergh said. Neanderthals, humans may have co-existed for thousands of years Humans met Neanderthals on way out of Africa, skull suggests Scientists have been eager to unravel the region's history of human habitation. Sulawesi may have served as a stepping stone for the first people to reach Australia roughly 50,000 years ago. "Major islands such as Flores, Sulawesi, Luzon, and perhaps others as well, could have served as natural experiments in human evolution, and could throw new light on human evolution in general," van den Bergh added. The species that made the tools may have reached Sulawesi by drifting over the ocean on tsunami debris, he said. The researchers described 311 stone tools, most made of a very hard limestone. The village of Talepu that now stands on the island of Sulawesi. (Erick Setiabudi) Archeologist Adam Brumm of Australia's Griffith University said they were produced by humans striking one stone with another, fashioning smaller pieces with knife-like sharpness. "They mostly comprise simple sharp-edged flakes of stone that no doubt would have been useful for basic tasks like cutting up meat, shaping wooden implements, and so on," Brumm said. Found nearby were fossils of an extinct elephant relative and extinct giant pig with warthog-like tusks. The research was published in the journal Nature. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Humans met Neanderthals on way out of Africa, skull suggests The Great Human Odyssey on The Nature of Things Neanderthals, humans may have coexisted for thousands of years Oldest human poop study says Neanderthals ate their veggies Neanderthal caves organized as 'pleasant places to live' Modern humans may have copied Neanderthal technology Neanderthals, humans may have missed each other External Links Summary of the paper in Nature Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca