http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/greenland-glacier-1.3316518
Greenland glacier sheds billions of tonnes of ice into ocean | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Greenland glacier sheds billions of tonnes of ice into ocean Social Sharing Technology & Science Greenland glacier sheds billions of tonnes of ice into ocean A glacier in northeast Greenland with enough ice to raise world ocean levels by 50 cms (20 inches) has begun to slide faster toward the sea, extending ice losses to all corners of the vast remote island, a study showed on Thursday. Social Sharing Zachariae Isstrom glacier sliding quickly after floating free from bedrock 'brake' Thomson Reuters · Posted: Nov 12, 2015 4:04 PM ET | Last Updated: November 13, 2015 The setting sun paints a dramatic sky over icebergs in a fjord off west Greenland. Greenland contains enough ice to raise world sea levels by about 6 metres (20 feet) if it ever all melted in a slow-motion collapse that could take thousands of years. (Maria Stenzel/UC Irvine) comments A glacier in northeast Greenland with enough ice to raise world ocean levels by 50 cms (20 inches) has begun to slide faster toward the sea, extending ice losses to all corners of the vast remote island, a study showed on Thursday. Warmer water temperatures meant the end of the Zachariae Isstrom glacier floated free from a ridge of bedrock below sea level on which it had rested until 2012, according to the U.S. study reported in the journal Science. Glacier melt in B.C. mountains reaches 'shocking' levels How western Canada glaciers will melt away Without that natural brake, the glacier in the cold north was now sliding quicker and more icebergs were snapping off, adding a net five billion tonnes of ice a year to the oceans, according to the study based on satellite and aerial surveys. "Similar changes — even larger — are under way in the south," Jeremie Mouginot, lead author of the study at the University of California, Irvine (UCI), told Reuters in an e-mail. UC Irvine glaciologists aboard the MV Cape Race in August 2014 mapped for the first time remote Greenland fjords and ice melt that is raising sea levels around the globe. (Maria Stenzel/UC Irvine) Greenland contains enough ice to raise world sea levels by about six metres (20 feet) if it ever all melted in a slow-motion collapse that could take thousands of years. Its ice losses, along with thawing ice from the Alps to Antarctica, have raised sea levels by about 20 centimetres since 1900. That aggravates storm surges for cities from New York to Shanghai and threatens low-lying tropical island nations. Sea level has climbed 8 centimetres since 1992 A nearby north Greenland glacier, Nioghalvfjerdsfjorden — often called "79" for ease of pronunciation — was also melting fast, the study said. But its slide was restricted by an uphill section of seabed under its icy base. 'Staggering' changes "The changes are staggering and are now affecting the four corners of Greenland," Eric Rignot, a co-author at UCI, said in a statement. Almost 200 nations will meet in Paris for a summit starting on Nov. 30 to try to limit climate change. Justin Trudeau to meet premiers ahead of UN climate change summit The U.N. panel of climate scientists estimates that sea levels may rise by between 26 and 82 centimetres (10 and 32 inches) this century. The Zachariae Isstrom glacier is now sliding more quickly and more icebergs are snapping off, adding a net five billion tonnes of ice a year to the oceans, according to the study based on satellite and aerial surveys. (Maria Stenzel/UC Irvine) Ruth Mottram of the Danish Meteorological Institute, who was not involved in Thursday's study, said Greenland's glaciers sometimes accelerate after small changes in the environment. "A small retreat can become a much bigger retreat because these glaciers are only stable when they are resting on bedrock," she said. Another study has estimated Greenland lost a net 211 billion tonnes of ice annually from 2000-11 — roughly 0.6 millimetres of global sea level rise a year — with icebergs and melting ice exceeding snowfall that replenishes the ice sheet. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Video Greenland's 'dark snow' climate threat worse than thought Interactive Glacier melt in B.C. mountains reaches 'shocking' levels Sea level has climbed 8 centimetres since 1992 Faint hopes for Arctic sea ice recovery as levels drop to 4th lowest on record Scientist warns much of Florida will be underwater within next few decades External Links Summary of the paper in Science Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca