https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/190-million-year-old-dinosaur-nesting-site-found-1.1139686
190-million-year-old dinosaur nesting site found | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news 190-million-year-old dinosaur nesting site found Social Sharing Technology & Science 190-million-year-old dinosaur nesting site found A Canadian-led team of international researchers has unearthed the 190-million-year-old nesting site of the prosauropod dinosaur Massospondylus — predating previously known nesting grounds by 100 million years — at an excavation site in South Africa. Social Sharing Discovery in South Africa provides clues about reproductive behaviour of early dinosaurs CBC News · Posted: Jan 23, 2012 4:01 PM ET | Last Updated: January 24, 2012 A Canadian-led team of international researchers has unearthed the 190-million-year-old nesting site of the prosauropod dinosaur Massospondylus — predating previously known nesting grounds by 100 million years — at an excavation site in South Africa. The finding was published Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. The study led by Robert Reisz, a paleontologist and professor of biology at the University of Toronto's Mississauga campus, describes clutches of eggs, many with embryos, as well as tiny dinosaur footprints. They provide the oldest known evidence that the hatchlings remained at the nesting site until doubling in size. At least 10 nests were discovered at several levels at the site, each with up to 34 round eggs in tightly clustered clutches. The distribution of the nests in the sediments reveals a couple of key nesting instincts, providing the oldest known evidence of such behaviour in the fossil record. One is nesting fidelity, meaning that these early dinosaurs returned repeatedly to the site. Second, they also likely assembled in groups to lay their eggs, known as colonial nesting. The mother's large size — six metres long — and the small size of the eggs, about six to seven centimetres in diameter, along with the highly organized nature of the nest suggest that the mother may have arranged them carefully after she laid them, said Reisz. A handprint of the baby dinosaur Massospondylus was found at the nesting site in South Africa. (D. Scott) "The eggs, embryos and nests come from the rocks of a nearly vertical road cut only 25 metres long," he said. "Even so, we found 10 nests, suggesting that there are a lot more in the cliff, still covered by tons of rock. We predict that many more nests will be eroded out in time as natural weathering processes continue." The discovery provides important clues about how the complicated reproductive behaviour of early dinosaurs evolved, said co-author David Evans of the Royal Ontario Museum. "Even though the fossil record of dinosaurs is extensive, we actually have very little fossil information about their reproductive biology, particularly for early dinosaurs," said Evans, the ROM's associate curator of vertebrate paleontology. "This amazing series of 190-million-year-old nests gives us the first detailed look at dinosaur reproduction early in their evolutionary history and documents the antiquity of nesting strategies that are only known much later in the dinosaur record." The fossils were found in sedimentary rocks from the early Jurassic period in the Golden Gate Highlands National Park in South Africa. The previously oldest known embryos belonging to Massospondylus, a relative of the giant, long-necked sauropods of the Jurassic and Cretaceous periods, were also found at the site. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca