https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/canada-s-action-on-climate-change-still-inadequate-bob-mcdonald-1.3214678
Canada's action on climate change still 'inadequate': Bob McDonald | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Canada's action on climate change still 'inadequate': Bob McDonald Social Sharing Technology & Science Canada's action on climate change still 'inadequate': Bob McDonald Canada is lagging behind other countries on reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. So why isn't climate change an election issue? Social Sharing Another study finds Canada's environmental response wanting Bob McDonald · CBC News · Posted: Sep 03, 2015 4:13 PM ET | Last Updated: September 9, 2015 California's drought this summer is seen by many as climate change in action. (Lucy Nicholson/Reuters) A new report released by the Climate Action Tracker, an independent consortium of four European climate research institutions, has found that international promises to reduce carbon emissions and prevent a 2°C global average temperature increase are not being met. And Canada is rated among the lowest for performance, falling into the category of "inadequate." There have been some reductions in carbon emissions in this country, mainly from improvements in fuel efficiency of vehicles and lower CO2 from electricity generation - thanks to Ontario shutting down its coal-fired generating stations. But overall, Canada's greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise, and according to the report, will not meet our target of 30 per cent below 2005 levels by 2030. Instead, the researchers estimate that our overall emissions are expected to rise to eight per cent above 2005 levels by that deadline. Global warming is carving measurable changes into Alaska, which U.S. President Barack Obama witnessed during a recent three-day visit to the northern state. (Matt Snyder/Alaska Division of Forestry/Associated Press) These increases are due to both increasing activity in energy extraction in the West, and the strange way emissions are calculated by our government. According to the report, "The accounting options Canada proposes using are fraught with difficulties, including substantial potential for double counting, asymmetric accounting (counting sinks and omitting sources), and other issues." In other words, we seem to be cooking the books when it comes to greenhouse gas reporting. Poor international standing This country has a history of setting emissions targets, not meeting them, then setting lower targets and repeating the pattern. Since pulling out of the Kyoto Accord in 2011, our reputation on the international scene has suffered greatly. There have been more ambitious proposals put forward in Parliament that could have enabled Canada to reach beyond its targets, such as the Climate Change Accountability Act, a private member's bill that suggested a reduction target of 80 per cent below 1990 levels. While it passed the House of Commons twice, the last time in 2014, it never got past the Senate. Canada's poor performance and low rating does not bode well for the upcoming climate talks in Paris this November, where the United Nations is hoping for a universal climate agreement. Promises will be made, but without meaningful action, those promises are rather empty. Meanwhile, droughts, wildfires, severe weather events, receding glaciers and sea level rise continue to set records as the climate continues to heat up. These events are costing billions in damage, which takes wind out of the argument that reducing emissions will harm the economy. Canada is capable of not only reducing carbon emissions, but becoming a world leader in developing new innovative clean technologies. We have world-class universities and colleges spread across the country to do it. Instead, Canadian scientists are speaking out against cuts to environmental science budgets, the closing of research stations, weakened environmental protection laws, and their ability to speak freely about their research. In light of all this, why hasn't climate change become an election issue? About the Author Bob McDonald Bob McDonald is the host of CBC Radio's award-winning weekly science program, Quirks & Quarks. He is also a science commentator for CBC News Network and CBC-TV's The National. He has received 12 honorary degrees and is an Officer of the Order of Canada. Quirks & Quarks Bob McDonald RSS feed Bob McDonald's recent columns Bob McDonald's archived columns, 2006 to June 2014 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Photos Obama closes out Alaska trip, uses image to elevate climate change Tree population estimated to be 7 times higher than thought Obama's climate-change talk stands in stark contrast to Canada's main party leaders Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca