https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/scientists-eye-link-between-virus-honey-bee-collapse-1.657600
Scientists eye link between virus, honey bee collapse | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Scientists eye link between virus, honey bee collapse Social Sharing Technology & Science Scientists eye link between virus, honey bee collapse A honeybee virus new to North America may be linked to a mysterious illness that has struck almost a quarter of the hives in the United States this year, scientists said Thursday. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Sep 06, 2007 2:59 PM ET | Last Updated: September 6, 2007 A honeybee virus new to North America may be linked to a mysterious illness that has struck almost a quarter of the hives in the United States this year, scientists said Thursday. Writing in an upcoming article in the online edition of the journal Science, a group of U.S. researchers suggest a virus called Israeli Acute Paralysis Virus (IAPV) may be connected to Colony Collapse Disorder, a phenomenon that has struck tens of thousands of honeybees this year. "The virus appears to be associated with colony collapse disorder," said Pennsylvania State University entomology professor and co-author Diana Cox-Foster during a teleconference on Wednesday. "Whether it is a causative agent or a very good marker is the next major question we need to address," she said. Colony Collapse Disorder (CCD) has puzzled scientists and beekeepers alike since it was first discovered in 2004. Its symptoms are the absence of adult bees with no corpses in the hive, and also the presence of both honey and pollen in the hive. The ailment became more prominent this spring when some beekeepers in the United States reported losses of most or all of their hives. CCD hit an estimated 23 per cent of all beekeeping operations during the winter of 2006-07, the authors said. The losses raised concerns throughout agricultural industries, since honeybees also act as an important agent of pollination for many crops. The scientists used genetic sequencing to trace which viruses, bacteria or parasites were present in the bees affected by the disorder and those unaffected. Only one such virus was always present with CCD — Israeli Acute Paralysis Virus. The researchers, led by Columbia University's Ian Lipkin, said the identification of IAPV gives them a lead in their investigation, but is likely not the sole cause of the colony collapses. Other issues, such as parasitic mites, nutrition, pesticides and the stress on some bees from frequent apiary moves also could have an impact. Doug McRory, the provincial apiarist with the Ontario Beekeepers Association, said he had not heard of IAPV before and doubted others in the apicultural industry in Canada had either, but said the lack of knowledge will make it of interest to Canadian beekeepers. "It will be interesting to see if it's here, and if it is, what effect it's having on our bees," McRory told CBC News. While many Canadian beekeepers have reported higher-than-usual losses this year, McRory said these losses are not directly attributable to CCD. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories The plight of the honeybee Honeybees dropping like flies from mystery illness Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca