http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/story/2011/05/12/ottawa-canadarm-museum.html
Canadarm's home up in the air: space agency | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Canadarm's home up in the air: space agency Social Sharing Ottawa Canadarm's home up in the air: space agency The Canadian Space Agency says it is in negotiations to bring the space shuttle Endeavour's Canadarm back to Canada — but, contrary to reports, the robotic arm's final home has yet to be decided. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: May 12, 2011 10:22 AM ET | Last Updated: May 12, 2011 The Canadian Space Agency said it is in negotiations with NASA to bring the Canadarm from the space shuttle Endeavour back to Canada — but, contrary to reports, the final home of the iconic piece of technology has yet to be decided. The Canadian Press reported Thursday that after Canadarm's final mission aboard Endeavour concludes later this month, it will find a new home at the Canada Aviation and Space Museum in Ottawa. Stephen Quick, director general of the Ottawa museum, said the 15-metre long robotic arm's first stop will be the Canadian Space Agency, near Montreal, before it comes to Ottawa. "I believe they're going to try and display it a bit and, at some point down the road, it's heading our way," he told The Canadian Press. Robert Godwin, curator of Toronto's privately run Canadian Air and Space Museum, also told CP that it was his understanding that the decision had already been made to bring the Canadarm to Ottawa. But CSA spokesman Jean-Pierre Arsenault said nothing has been decided yet and the Canadarm may continue to travel if it is in good enough condition. Spar Aerospace began developing the first Canadarm in Toronto in 1975 and it was delivered to NASA in April 1981. The space arm — then known only as known as the shuttle remote manipulator system — was first put to work on Nov., 13 1981, when it stretched out from the cargo bay of space shuttle Columbia. Five Canadarms were built for American space shuttles, but one was destroyed in an explosion during the 1986 launch of the space shuttle Challenger. There was no Canadarm on the space shuttle Columbia when it was destroyed in 2003, but after the incident, Canadarms equipped with cameras to check for shuttle damage became mandatory on all missions. With files from The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Endeavour's Canadarm coming home CBC Archives: Canadarm, a technology star Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca