https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/sharks-under-serious-threat-from-fishing-1.604956
Sharks under serious threat from fishing | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Sharks under serious threat from fishing Social Sharing Technology & Science Sharks under serious threat from fishing Many species of shark are facing a serious threat to their existence because of worldwide fishing trends, environmentalists say. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 09, 2006 9:14 AM ET | Last Updated: November 9, 2006 Many species of shark are facing a serious threat to their existence because of worldwide fishing trends, environmentalists say. Fishermen "used to cut the lines and let sharks go," said Pete Knights, executive director of WildAid, a San Francisco-based conservation group,at a shark conservation conference Wednesday. In recent years, however, fishermen haveharvested the sharks for their lucrative fins. One-third of the more than 500 shark species are threatened with extinction or are close to being threatened, said Sarah Fowler of the World Conservation Union. "Fisheries can remove 50 to 90 per cent of an entire shark [species] in only 10 years," said Fowler, according to the Xinhua News Agency. Fowler told the Associated Press later that the projections were based ona continuingstudy by the Conservation Union's shark research group. She and other experts at the conference said governments and non-governmental organizations must work together to educate the public and fishermen about overfishing. Shark's fin soup threatens species WildAid, which co-sponsored the conference, persuaded NBA star Yao Ming in August to pledge to give up eating shark's fin soup, a Chinese delicacy, as part of a campaign to promote wildlife protection in his homeland. WildAid says China is the world's biggest importer of shark fins, which conservationists say are cut from sharks that are thrown back into the ocean to die. WildAid put the worldwide trade in shark fins at 10,000 tonnes a year. Fowler estimated that 38 to 70 million sharks are killed each year for their fins. "It is difficult to change people's dining habits, but we can educate and engage the public to achieve sustainable development of the sharks and people's dining culture," said Li Yanliang, deputy general director of the Agriculture Ministry's aquatic wild fauna and flora administrative office,at the conference. Knights said that as the Chinese economy has grown, shark fin consumption has risen,increasing pressures on shark populations that were already vulnerable to overfishing because they breed so slowly. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca