https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/antarctic-dna-gives-climate-coping-clues-1.760839
Antarctic DNA gives climate coping clues | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Antarctic DNA gives climate coping clues Social Sharing Technology & Science Antarctic DNA gives climate coping clues DNA in the bones of Adélie penguins that survived the last ice age are helping to shed light on how other animals will cope with climate change, say researchers. Social Sharing Posted: Oct 14, 2008 10:40 AM ET | Last Updated: October 14, 2008 Researchers say Adélie penguins have been surviving extreme climate change in Antarctica for hundreds of thousands of years. ((Griffith University)) DNA in the bones of Adélie penguins that survived the last ice age are helping to shed light on how other animals will cope with climate change, say researchers. Evolutionary biologist professor David Lambert of Griffith University in Brisbane and colleagues report their analysis of Adélie penguin DNA dating back 37,000 years in the journal PLOS Genetics. "Adélie penguins are a wonderful model to study the problem of climate change," says Lambert. "They have lived through temperature fluctuations much higher than those in equatorial regions." Lambert says Adélie penguins have survived 10 degrees of warming since the last glacial maximum 18,000 years ago. He expects it's possible they have been around 120,000 years earlier than that, during the peak of the ice age before last. Adélie penguins are one of very few species that have survived in large numbers over such a long time, says Lambert. Surviving climate change Lambert says if species are able to move geographically there is evidence that they can combat climate change by staying within their preferred temperature range. "The problem for Adélie penguins is they've got nowhere to go," says Lambert. "They're in the coldest place they can be." He says the fact Adélie penguins have survived extreme changes in temperature may mean that some species are able to respond to climate change even when they can't move geographically. Lambert and colleagues' research on the rate of evolution of Adélie penguins in Antarctica may help shed some light on why this is the case. The team analysed the number of mutations in the mitochondrial DNA of mothers and their chicks and compared this with DNA from ancestral penguins, taken from 37,000-year-old bones preserved in the extreme cold and dry conditions of Antarctica. They found the rate of mutations between generations was the same as the rate over 37,000 years. This is contrary to recent suggestions that evolution is faster over short time frames, but slows down over long time frames, when the loss of genetic diversity due to speciation is taken into account. Importantly, the rate of evolution of Adélie penguins found by Lambert and the team confirm earlier findings that the penguins evolve faster than previously thought, which may be one explanation for their ability to survive extreme variations in climate. Other animals with similarly high rates of evolution, are the tuatoara (a New Zealand reptile), bison, the brown bear and the cave lion, says Lambert. Natural selection Lambert says the DNA analysis has so far focused on genes not subject to natural selection. He says these so-called "neutral" genes are important in developing an evenly ticking "molecular clock" for evolution. Sequences under control of natural selection would change rapidly during some periods of time and hardly change at all at other periods of time. Lambert says natural selection may also have played a role in the Adélie penguin's survival in Antarctica and he hopes to also look at the mutation in genes that are subject to natural selection. Evolutionary biologist Dr Jeremy Austin of the University of Adelaide says the work raises questions about the idea that evolution rates are time dependent. But, he says, it is possible that 37,000 years is not long enough for the slower evolutionary rate to show up. "When we talk about evolutionary rates we're talking about things that are possibly a million years or more," Austin says. He says sequencing even older DNA would be helpful, as would comparing Adélie penguins with a sister species. Lambert says he is confident the team will be able to obtain viable DNA from penguin remains preserved for hundreds of thousands of years many metres beneath the permafrost. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories IN DEPTH: Climate change features Climate change means 'trouble' for tropical species, researchers warn MAP: Snapshots of a warming world FEATURE: Climate change - where Canada's political parties stand Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca