https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/wrists-of-hobbit-fossil-suggest-new-species-1.653985
Wrists of 'hobbit' fossil suggest new species | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Wrists of 'hobbit' fossil suggest new species Social Sharing Technology & Science Wrists of 'hobbit' fossil suggest new species A diminutive humanoid fossil found on a remote island in Indonesia represents a new species, and not a modern human with a growth defect, according to scientists who published new evidence on Thursday. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Sep 20, 2007 5:55 PM ET | Last Updated: September 20, 2007 A diminutive humanoid fossil found on a remote island in Indonesia represents a new species, and not a modern human with a growth defect, according to scientists who published new evidence on Thursday. The study of the wrist bones of the Homo floresiensis fossil — dubbed "the Hobbit" — found that their wrists were far more primitive than either Neanderthals or modern humans. This suggests they were an entirely different species that branched off before the origin of a group of hominids that wouldinclude Neanderthals and modern humans, said the authors of a study published in the journal Science. Since its discovery on the Indonesian island of Flores in 2003, the fossil, known as LB1, has become the subject of intense scrutiny and debate in the scientific community. The fossil became known as "the Hobbit" in the press, after the diminutive characters in J.R.R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings novels. Critics have suggested the fossil's small skull was too small to have accommodated the tool-making intelligence attributed to the humanoid after stone-flaking technology was found at the same site. And an article in Science in 2006 suggested the skull of LB1 was more likely to be found in someone with a genetic illness that causes dwarfism. The authors of the most recent study, led by Matthew Tocheri of the National Museum of Natural History in Washington, DC, looked at three types of wrist bones and compared them with those of Neanderthals, modern humans, living great apes and ancient human ancestors like Australopithecus. The hobbit wrists were far more similar to those of great apes and ancient human ancestors than to our recent relatives. The authors suggest the later development of more complex wrist structures may have helped human descendants use stone tools more efficiently. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories 'Hobbit' fossil: dwarf or new species? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca