https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/massive-iceberg-calving-off-antarctica-1.1020186
Massive iceberg calving off Antarctica | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Massive iceberg calving off Antarctica Social Sharing Technology & Science Massive iceberg calving off Antarctica An iceberg 50 per cent bigger than the City of Toronto is expected to break off from an Antarctic ice shelf later this year or early in 2012. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Nov 04, 2011 10:54 AM ET | Last Updated: November 4, 2011 Scientists say the giant crack in the Pine Island ice shelf is widening by 1.8 metres each day. (DMS/NASA) An iceberg 50 per cent bigger than the city of Toronto is expected to break off from an Antarctic ice shelf later this year or early in 2012. Antarctica's Pine Island ice shelf is being split by a giant crack that was 29 kilometres long, 73 metres wide and 58 metres deep in some places as of Oct. 26, NASA reported. Scientists said it is widening by 1.8 metres each day. The iceberg expected to calve off will have an area of about 900 square kilometres — quite a bit larger than the entire city of Toronto, which covers 641 square kilometres. The crack was found during NASA's third annual airborne survey to measure and map changes in Antarctic glaciers this past October and November. It's believed to be the first detailed airborne measurement of a crack that is actively calving off an iceberg. In this case, the process is considered unrelated to climate change — the Pine Island ice shelf is known to periodically calve off large icebergs, most recently in 2007. However, the larger glacier that the ice shelf is part of shows what NASA calls "one of the most significant climate change response trends that scientists see worldwide." The glacier was measured to have lost 46 gigatonnes of mass in 2010 or the equivalent of 46 trillion litres of water. That's a huge increase in its melt rate — in 2005, it lost just six gigatonnes. With files from The Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Canadian ice shelves breaking up at record speed Massive icebergs drift from Antarctic coast Antarctic ice shelf crumbling into icebergs Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca