https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/crocodile-ancestors-found-in-sahara-1.797090
Crocodile ancestors found in Sahara | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Crocodile ancestors found in Sahara Social Sharing Technology & Science Crocodile ancestors found in Sahara A six-metre croc with three sets of fangs is among the five ancient relatives of modern-day crocodiles found in the Sahara Desert, scientists said. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Nov 19, 2009 10:52 AM ET | Last Updated: November 19, 2009 A six-metre croc with three sets of fangs is among the five ancient relatives of modern-day crocodiles found in the Sahara Desert, scientists said Thursday. Three of the fossils, discovered by researchers led by Paul Sereno of the University of Chicago and Hans Larsson of McGill University, represent newly named species. CBC Radio's Quirks & Quarks will have an interview with Hans Larsson of McGill University on Nov. 21. The fossil remains were found in a series of expeditions beginning in 2000. All of the prehistoric crocs lived about 100 million years ago in the southern super-continent known as Gondwana, when the region that is now the Sahara featured dinosaurs and grassy plains criss-crossed by rivers. "These species open a window on a croc world completely foreign to what was living on northern continents," Sereno said in a statement. The new crocodile fossils are described in the journal ZooKeys and are featured in the November issue of National Geographic magazine and in a TV special to be broadcast Saturday on the National Geographic Channel. Sereno is an explorer-in-residence with National Geographic. He discovered a nearly complete skeleton of a massive crocodile ancestor, dubbed SuperCroc, during expeditions in 1997 and 2000. He has also given whimsical names to the fossils. The three new species are nicknamed BoarCroc, RatCroc and PancakeCroc. Sereno also found new fossils of two previously described species, which he's named DuckCroc and DogCroc. "We were surprised to discover so many species from the same time in the same place," Larsson said at a news conference Thursday. "Each of the crocs apparently had different diets, different behaviours. It appears they had divided up the ecosystem, each species taking advantage of it in its own way," RatCroc, DuckCroc and DogCroc were all about a metre long, while BoarCroc and Pancake Croc were six metres long. Sereno said four of these crocs stood with their legs under their bodies. They walked like land mammals rather than sprawling with their bellies on the ground as modern crocodiles do. PancakeCroc, on the other hand, was a squat fish-eater that likely sat motionless in the water waiting for its prey. "My African crocs appeared to have had both upright, agile legs for bounding overland and a versatile tail for paddling in water," Sereno wrote in a National Geographic article. "Their amphibious talents in the past may be the key to understanding how they flourished in, and ultimately survived, the dinosaur era," he wrote. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories CBC Radio's Quirks & Quarks: Interview with Hans Larsson of McGill University, Nov. 21 'SuperCroc' skull arrives at Tyrrell museum External Links National Geographic News Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca