https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/everest-gigapixel-image-zooms-in-on-glacier-threat-1.1265006
Everest gigapixel image zooms in on glacier threat | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Everest gigapixel image zooms in on glacier threat Social Sharing Technology & Science Everest gigapixel image zooms in on glacier threat A filmmaker and mountaineer has spent five years piecing together a giant gigapixel image of Mount Everest and the Khumbu glacier, showing the Himalayan peak and its surroundings in extraordinary high-resolution detail, in an effort to highlight the effects of global warming. Social Sharing 4-billion pixel image provides Himalayan panorama CBC News · Posted: Dec 20, 2012 2:33 PM ET | Last Updated: December 21, 2012 A filmmaker and mountaineer has spent five years piecing together a giant gigapixel image of Mount Everest and the Khumbu glacier, showing the Himalayan peak and its surroundings in extraordinary high-resolution detail, in an effort to highlight the effects of global warming. American filmmaker David Breashears is the executive director of GlacierWorks, a non-profit organization dedicated to raising awareness of disappearing glaciers, and has climbed to the summit five times and visited the mountain 15 times. Breashears has spent five years taking over 400 photos with a 300-mm lens and stitching them together to create the mega image — which is almost four billion pixels in size. The image provides an interactive tour of the harsh and beautiful terrain of Everest and its surroundings. Viewers can take in the entire panorama as well as "deep zoom" in to see climbers from several kilometres away and tents at Base Camp. The image is part of a larger project by GlacierWorks which includes precisely matched images of the glaciers today with historic images taken by turn of the century pioneering mountain photographers to demonstrate how the Himalayan landscape has changed. "We believe this approach will foster a deep understanding of the changes at work in this remote and frozen region," said the GlacierWorks website. One of the pioneer mountaineers Breashears cites as a source is Edward Oliver Wheeler, a Canadian from Ottawa. Wheeler joined the British Reconnaissance Expedition in 1921 as a surveyor and took images and panoramas of the glaciers using Canadian photo-topographical survey cameras. Breashears calls the Himalayas the "canary in a coalmine of climate change" as its receding glaciers offer a stark visual representation of the effect of global warming. There are nearly 50,000 high-altitude glaciers in the Himalayas covering almost 35,000 square kilometres. The seasonal water run-off from the glaciers supplies most of the major river systems in Asia such as the Ganges and the Yangtze rivers. "Although future impacts of glacial melt cannot be known, any disruption to the water supply will inevitably present challenges to the millions of people living downstream," said the website. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories The risks and responsibilities of taking on Mt. Everest Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca