http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/temperatures-one-degree-celsius-1.3310733
Temperatures in 2015 on track to be record 1 degree C hotter | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Temperatures in 2015 on track to be record 1 degree C hotter Social Sharing Technology & Science Temperatures in 2015 on track to be record 1 degree C hotter This year is on track to be a record 1 degree Celsius hotter than the average temperature during the late 19th century, marking a symbolic milestone in the global warming that scientists blame on human activities, Britain's weather service said Monday. Social Sharing We're halfway to 2 degree C increase set by governments as a limit to avoid dangerous warming levels The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 09, 2015 1:37 PM ET | Last Updated: November 9, 2015 An ice floe floats on a lake in front of the Solheimajokull glacier in Iceland, where the ice has retreated by more than one kilometre since annual measurements began in 1931. On Monday, Britain's Met Office announced that this year is on track to be a record 1 degree C hotter than the pre-industrial average. (Thibault Camus/Associated Press) comments This year is on track to be a record 1 degree Celsius hotter than the average temperature during the late 19th century, marking a symbolic milestone in the global warming that scientists blame on human activities, Britain's weather service said Monday. To measure global warming, scientists compare today's temperature level with those between 1850 and 1900, or the pre-industrial age, before the world started burning fossil fuels on a large scale, releasing heat-trapping carbon dioxide into the air. July 2015 was the hottest month on modern record Global warming continues as temperatures rise, study finds Canada's climate plan is fractured and inadequate: Don Pittis A rise of 1 degree would be important because it's halfway to the 2 degrees that governments have set as a limit to avoid dangerous levels of warming. The British Met Office said global temperatures between January and September of this year were 1.02 C above the 1850-1900 average, adding that the remainder of the year is expected to remain hot because of the El Nino weather phenomenon. "We've had similar natural events in the past, yet this is the first time we're set to reach the 1-degree C marker and it's clear that it is human influence driving our modern climate into uncharted territory," said Stephen Belcher, director of the Met Office Hadley Centre for climate science. Met Office officials noted that it doesn't mean every year from now will be at least 1 degree warmer, as natural variability will still play a role. UN's 2015 weather assessment to come The World Meteorological Organization, the UN weather agency, is expected to release its assessment of this year's temperatures later this month, combining the Met Office numbers with data from NASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) in the U.S. On Monday, WMO reported that levels of carbon dioxide and methane, the two most important greenhouse gases, reached record highs last year, continuing the warming effect on the world's climate. Carbon dioxide (CO2) levels rose to nearly 398 parts per million, from 396 ppm in 2013, WMO said. The CO2 level fluctuates throughout the year and the monthly average crossed the symbolic 400 ppm threshold in March 2015. The WMO said the annual average "is likely to pass 400 ppm in 2016." Smoke streams from the chimneys of a coal-fired power station in Gelsenkirchen, Germany. Pushed by the burning of coal, oil and gas for energy, global CO2 levels are now 143 per cent higher than before the industrial revolution and scientists say that is the main driver of global warming. (Martin Meissner/Associated Press) Pushed by the burning of coal, oil and gas for energy, global CO2 levels are now 143 per cent higher than before the industrial revolution. Scientists say that's the main driver of global warming. WMO said methane levels reached a new high of about 1,833 parts per billion in 2014. About 40 per cent of methane emissions come from natural sources and about 60 per cent from human activities like cattle breeding, rice agriculture and the extraction of fossil fuels. "Every year we report a new record in greenhouse gas concentrations," WMO Secretary-General Michel Jarraud said. "We have to act now to slash greenhouse gas emissions if we are to have a chance to keep the increase in temperatures to manageable levels." Climate summit begins Nov. 30 World governments are meeting in Paris at the end of this month to craft a new UN pact to rein in greenhouse gas emissions. More than 150 countries — including top greenhouse gas polluters China, the United States, the European Union and India — have pledged to cut or curb their emissions in the next decade. Canada's commitment for 2020, under the Copenhagen accord, is to reduce emissions 17 per cent from their 2005 level. Figures from Environment Canada show that Canada is failing to meet even its 2020 targets, never mind any new targets to be agreed in Paris. Meanwhile, climate change is already transforming the Earth, melting Arctic sea ice, intensifying heat waves and warming and acidifying the ocean. Climate scientists say if global warming continues unabated, dangerous effects could include the flooding of coastal cities and island nations, disruptions to agriculture and drinking water, the spread of diseases and the extinction of species. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Global heat records smashed in first half of 2015 Analysis Canada's climate plan is fractured and inadequate: Don Pittis Climate change played role in 2014's extreme weather, report says EU greenhouse gas emissions plunge below 2020 target July 2015 was the hottest month on modern record Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca