https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/weather-could-delay-ares-rocket-test-1.799622
Weather could delay Ares rocket test | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Weather could delay Ares rocket test Social Sharing Technology & Science Weather could delay Ares rocket test NASA officials say the Ares I-X test rocket is ready for launch Tuesday morning, but weather could scrub the test flight until Wednesday. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Oct 26, 2009 9:09 AM ET | Last Updated: October 26, 2009 NASA officials say the Ares I-X test rocket is ready for launch Tuesday morning, but weather could scrub the test flight until Wednesday. NASA weather officer Kathy Winters said there's only a 40 per cent chance that weather will be favourable for a launch during the four-hour window available for 8 a.m. until noon ET Tuesday. Winters said clouds and rain could push the launch to Wednesday morning. The director for the Ares I-X test launch, Jeff Spaulding, said the vehicle itself is ready to go. "I'm very happy to report that we are tracking no problems and the vehicle is in great shape," he said. The 98-metre Ares rocket is on the launch pad at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida. The test launch will help NASA's engineers determine if the design can withstand the extreme stresses that occur during lift-off. No astronauts will be on board the rocket. The Ares I-X is the first version of a series of rockets set to carry the U.S. space agency's next-generation Orion spacecraft after the space shuttle fleet is retired in 2010. There are only six scheduled flights left for the shuttles. The Orion-Ares combination is not due to launch with astronauts on board until 2017 at the earliest. That poses a problem for the U.S. contribution to the International Space Station, which is currently scheduled to be decommissioned in 2015. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories NASA should skip moon: panel NASA's moon program gets boost in Congress Ares moon rocket test deemed a success U.S. space panel says moon return plan is no go NASA cancels test rocket launch External Links Ares I-X launch news, from NASA.gov Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca