https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/local-extinction-climate-change-study-1.3887210
It's already happening: Hundreds of animals, plants locally extinct due to climate change | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news It's already happening: Hundreds of animals, plants locally extinct due to climate change Social Sharing Technology & Science It's already happening: Hundreds of animals, plants locally extinct due to climate change It may be tempting to take comfort in the idea that the big changes related to climate change will happen decades from now. But a new study from the University of Arizona has found that local extinctions related to global warming have occurred in half of species studied. Social Sharing New study found local extinctions related to global warming have occurred in half of species studied Brandie Weikle · CBC News · Posted: Dec 08, 2016 2:00 PM ET | Last Updated: December 8, 2016 The red-breasted nuthatch, spotted here in Calgary's Fish Creek Provincial Park, is among the species a new study has deemed locally extinct in some parts of Canada due to climate change. (Marcy Stader) It may be tempting to take comfort in the idea that big changes related to climate change are decades away. But a new study from the University of Arizona has found that local extinctions related to global warming have already occurred in almost half of the species studied. The term "local extinction" is used when a species can no longer be found at a location where it once lived. The study, authored by John Wiens, professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, was published Thursday in the journal PLOS Biology. Giraffes threatened by extinction, put on watch list Wiens compared survey results of 976 species of plants and animals documented around the world 50 or 60 years ago to data on those same species gathered 10 years ago, he told CBC News. He found that 47 per cent of those species — a representative sampling from around the world — were already locally extinct in the warmer parts of the regions where they were initially documented. "The striking thing is that this has occurred with only less than a one degree [Celcius] increase in global medial temperature and it's going to get much worse," said Wiens. "There's going to be an additional one to five degrees on top of that." He added that many people assume species loss from global warming is still a long way off. "They think, 'No, there's still a chance for this to not happen.' Basically my study shows there's been local extinctions in about half the species. This is all over the world, all kinds of different groups of organisms, all different habitats. So it's very wide spread." Can't easily migrate Only a small minority of animals can migrate to cooler, more hospitable ground, says Wiens. "In some cases they do that, but in the organisms I study, they don't move around much as adults. Frogs, they hang around one pond their whole lives. Lizards hang around one rock pile." A Canadian example One species his study found to be locally extinct in parts of Canada is a bird called the red-breasted nuthatch, or Sitta canadensis, said Wiens. Becky Stewart, a bird biologist with Bird Studies Canada, says her organization has observed climate change-related decline in bird populations. The important thing is that it's not too late. - John Wiens , University of Arizona "Impacts of climate change are particularly noticeable related to extreme weather events, which has impacts for some of the region's most at-risk bird species," said Stewart. "For example, overly dry summers impact species whose key habitats include wet bottomlands. Impacts are seen in reduced nesting — swampy areas are dry and no longer suitable nesting habitat — and producing fewer young." Holding out hope Despite the urgency of the situation, Wiens told the CBC he still optimistic many of these species can be saved. "The important thing is that it's not too late. The global extinctions haven't happened yet. These are all local extinctions," said Wiens. "If the trend continues, if it spreads to the entire range of these species, then yeah, they're gone and many more. But that hasn't happened yet. "I like to think it's not too late to change." About the Author Brandie Weikle CBC News Brandie Weikle is a senior writer for CBC News based in Toronto. She's a long-time magazine and newspaper editor and podcast host with specialities in family life, health and the workplace. You can reach her at brandie.weikle@cbc.ca. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Giraffes threatened by extinction, put on watch list Polar bear numbers could drop a third by mid-century, says study The weather outside is frightful thanks to climate change and the polar vortex Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca