http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/ancient-human-with-close-neanderthal-ancestor-found-in-romania-1.3122817
Ancient human with close Neanderthal ancestor found in Romania | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Ancient human with close Neanderthal ancestor found in Romania Social Sharing Technology & Science Ancient human with close Neanderthal ancestor found in Romania A man who lived about 40,000 years ago in Eastern Europe boasts the most Neanderthal ancestry ever seen in a member of our species. Social Sharing Man who lived 40,000 years ago had Neanderthal ancestor just 4 to 6 generations back Thomson Reuters · Posted: Jun 22, 2015 12:44 PM ET | Last Updated: June 22, 2015 The reconstructed face of a Neanderthal male is displayed in a cave in the new Neanderthal Museum in Krapina, Croatia. Neanderthals went extinct by 39,000 years ago, about 4,000 years after modern humans arrived in Europe. (Nikola Solic/Reuters) comments You may not know it, but you probably have some Neanderthal in you. For people around the world, except sub-Saharan Africans, about 1 to 3 per cent of their DNA comes from Neanderthals, our close cousins who disappeared roughly 39,000 years ago. Scientists said on Monday a jawbone unearthed in Romania, of a man who lived about 40,000 years ago, boasts the most Neanderthal ancestry ever seen in a member of our species. Neanderthal DNA hides in genes dictating our hair, skin Neanderthals' incest, interspecies sex revealed by genome DNA taken from a 40,000-year-old modern human jawbone from the cave Peștera cu Oase in Romania reveals that this man had a Neanderthal ancestor as recently as four to six generations back. (Svante Pääbo/Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology) The finding also indicates that interbreeding with Neanderthals occurred much more recently than previously known. "We show that one of the very first modern humans that is known from Europe had a Neanderthal ancestor just four to six generations back in his family tree," said geneticist Svante Pääbo of Germany's Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology. "He carries more Neanderthal DNA than any other present-day or ancient modern human seen to date." Neanderthals, humans may have co-existed for thousands of years Humans met Neanderthals on way out of Africa, skull suggests Harvard Medical School geneticist David Reich said 6 to 9 per cent of this individual's genome derived from a Neanderthal ancestor. The study, published in the journal Nature, indicates that our species interbred with Neanderthals in Europe as well, not just in the Middle East as previously thought, Pääbo said. Summary of the paper in Nature Previous research suggested this interbreeding occurred 50,000 to 60,000 years ago, before our species, arising in Africa, trekked into Europe, Asia and beyond. "Modern humans arrive in Europe after 43,000 years ago, and Neanderthals went extinct by 39,000 years ago," Reich said. Not closely related to later Europeans The scientists said a Neanderthal was among the individual's ancestors as recently as perhaps 100 to 150 years. The 40,000-year-old jawbone from Romania represents some of the earliest modern-human remains in Europe. (Svante Pääbo/Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology) Reich said genetic analysis showed the individual, a hunter-gatherer, was from a "pioneer population" that entered Europe but did not contribute much or anything at all genetically to later Europeans. "This is interesting because it means that Europe has not been continuously occupied by the same lineages ever since the first waves of migration of modern humans into Europe," Reich said. The robust, large-browed Neanderthals prospered across Europe and Asia from about 350,000 years ago till shortly after 40,000 years ago, disappearing in the period after Homo sapiens arrived. Despite an outdated reputation as our dimwitted cousins, scientists say Neanderthals were highly intelligent, as shown by their complex hunting methods, likely use of spoken language and symbolic objects, and sophisticated use of fire. The lower jawbone was found in 2002 in Oase Cave in southwestern Romania. Previous attempts to extract DNA were unsuccessful but recent technological advances facilitated the new findings. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Humans met Neanderthals on way out of Africa, skull suggests The Great Human Odyssey on The Nature of Things Neanderthals, humans may have coexisted for thousands of years Bones of pre-Neanderthal found in France Oldest human poop study says Neanderthals ate their veggies Neanderthal DNA hides in genes dictating our hair, skin Neanderthal caves organized as 'pleasant places to live' Neanderthals' incest, interspecies sex revealed by genome Modern humans may have copied Neanderthal technology Neanderthals, humans may have missed each other External Links Summary of the paper in Nature Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca