http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/2016-heat-record-climate-co2-emissions-1.3849636
2016 on track to beat heat record despite slowdown in CO2 emissions | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news 2016 on track to beat heat record despite slowdown in CO2 emissions Social Sharing Technology & Science 2016 on track to beat heat record despite slowdown in CO2 emissions Global temperatures are soaring toward a record high this year, the UN weather agency says, while another report showed emissions of a key global warming gas have flattened out in the past three years. Social Sharing After two consecutive years of record-breaking heat, 2016 looks to be yet another hot year The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 14, 2016 9:21 AM ET | Last Updated: November 14, 2016 After several months of record warmth this year, the World Meteorological Organization said on Monday that 2016 is on tap to be another record-breaking hot year for the planet. (Martin Harvey/WWF) Global temperatures are soaring toward a record high this year, the UN weather agency said Monday, while another report showed emissions of a key global warming gas have flattened out in the past three years. The reports injected a mix of gloom and hope at UN climate talks in Marrakech this week. "Another year. Another record. The high temperatures we saw in 2015 are set to be beaten in 2016," said Petteri Taalas, the head of the World Meteorological Organization (WMO). How a 2 C temperature increase could change the planet MPs vote 207 to 81 to back Paris climate change agreement The WMO's preliminary data through October showed world temperatures, boosted by the El Nino phenomenon, are 1.2 C above pre-industrial levels. That's getting close to the limit set by the global climate agreement adopted in Paris last year. It calls for limiting the temperature rise since the industrial revolution to 2 degrees C or even 1.5 degrees C. The WMO said 16 of the 17 hottest years have occurred this century. The only exception was 1998, which was also an El Nino year. Taalas said parts of Arctic Russia saw temperatures soaring 6 to 7 degrees C above average. "We are used to measuring temperature records in fractions of a degree, and so this is different," he said. Environmental groups and climate scientists said the report underscores the need to quickly reduce the emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases blamed for warming the planet. Some positive news Another report released Monday delivered some positive news, showing global CO2 emissions have flattened out in the past three years. However, the authors of the study cautioned it's unclear whether the slowdown, mainly caused by declining coal use in China, is a permanent trend or a temporary blip. "It is far too early to proclaim we have reached a peak," said co-author Glen Peters, a senior researcher at the Center for International Climate and Environmental Research in Oslo. This could be the turning point we have hoped for. - David Ray, University of Edinburgh The study, published in the journal Earth System Science Data, says global CO2 emissions from fossil fuels and industry is projected to grow by just 0.2 per cent this year. That would mean emissions have levelled off at about 36 billion metric tons in the past three years even though the world economy has expanded, suggesting the historical bonds between economic gains and emissions growth may have been severed. "This could be the turning point we have hoped for," said David Ray, a professor of carbon management at the University of Edinburgh, who was not involved with the study. "To tackle climate change those bonds must be broken and here we have the first signs that they are at least starting to loosen." Chinese emissions were down 0.7 per cent in 2015 and are projected to fall 0.5 per cent in 2016, the researchers said, though noting that Chinese energy statistics have been plagued by inconsistencies. American students protest outside the UN climate talks during the COP22 international climate conference in Marrakech this weekend in reaction to Donald Trump's victory in the Nov. 8 U.S. presidential election. (ADEL SENNA/AFP/Getty Images) Peters said it remains unclear whether the Chinese slowdown was due to a restructuring of the economy or a sign of economic instability, but the unexpected reduction in Chinese emissions "give us hope that the world's biggest emitter can deliver much more ambitious emission reductions." China, which accounts for almost 30 per cent of global carbon emissions, pledged to peak its emissions around 2030 as part of the global climate pact adopted in Paris last year. Many analysts say China's peak is likely to come much earlier — and may already have occurred. "The continued decline of China's CO2 emissions, combined with knowledge of structural change in the energy system, does indicate that CO2 emissions from China may have peaked. However a few more years of data is needed to confirm this," said Bill Hare, of Climate Analytics, a separate group that monitors global emissions. Dear president-elect: Climate change is not a hoax, and we're all in this together Trump win the 'most miserable U.S. election result' for fighting climate change, scientists say Even if China's emissions have stabilized, growth in India and other developing countries could push global emissions higher again. India's emissions rose 5 per cent in 2015, the study said. The election of Donald Trump as president of the United States — the world's No. 2 carbon polluter — could also have an impact. U.S. emissions fell 2.6 per cent last year and are projected to drop 1.7 per cent this year, as natural gas and renewables displace coal in power generation, the study showed. But it's unclear whether those reductions will continue under Trump, who has pledged to roll back the Obama administration's environmental policies, including the Clean Power Plan to reduce carbon pollution from power plants. Other researchers not affiliated with the study stressed that it's not enough for global emissions to stabilize; they need to drop toward zero for the world to meet the goals of the Paris deal. "Worryingly, the reductions pledged by the nations under the Paris Agreement are not sufficient to achieve this," said climate scientist Chris Rapley of University College London. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories World's lakes are warming surprisingly quickly due to climate change Climate change debate turns to how it will affect Justin Trudeau and Lisa Raitt's loved ones 5 Canadian communities threatened by climate change now New report outlines climate change challenges on Canada's Arctic coast Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca