http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/new-prehistoric-palm-1.3939279
New species of prehistoric palm discovered in Canada | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news New species of prehistoric palm discovered in Canada Social Sharing Technology & Science New species of prehistoric palm discovered in Canada A researcher has identified a new species of small palm that once grew in Canada — millions of years ago. Social Sharing Yes, the Great White North was once home to palms Nicole Mortillaro · CBC News · Posted: Jan 21, 2017 9:00 AM ET | Last Updated: January 27, 2017 This palm fossil, found near Edmonton, suggests that palms lived in western Canada at a time when the climate was more temperate. (David Greenwood) A researcher identified a new species of small palm that once grew in Canada after examining a fossil that had been part of an Alberta museum collection for decades. Palms are typically associated with warm, tropical climates. However, this newly discovered fossil indicates that palms grew much farther north than previously thought east of the Rockies. We see palms and we think, 'Oh! It was tropical!' Well, maybe not. - David Greenwood, Brandon University The finding also indicates that palms existed in temperate (rather than tropical) climates 20 million years earlier than records previously suggested. David Greenwood, a biology professor at Brandon University in Manitoba, found the palm in the collection at the the Royal Tyrell Museum. The Drumheller, Alta., museum had held the fossil since scientists collected it in 1995. The finding is significant for several reasons, he told CBC News. "It's got two different levels of specialness: one, just the scientific interest of palms as climate records, but also, hey, we had palms in Canada!" David Greenwood holds the newly discovered palm fossil. (Brandon University) Once Greenwood examined the fossil, he determined that it had come from the Paleocene era, about 65 million years ago. But the finding of an ancient palm fossil — which is only about the size of an average person's hand — doesn't mean Edmonton was necessarily a tropical paradise at that time. It was more of a temperate area with pine, birch, cedars and other deciduous trees. The climate, Greenwood said, would have been more akin to that of southern Ontario: cold in the winter, without lingering snow, and wet in the summer. "We see palms and we think, 'Oh! It was tropical!'" he said. "Well, maybe not." A changing climate Greenwood has been studying palm fossils and warm climates since 1993. He says that adult palms have been found to be quite resistant to limited cold weather, while seedlings can't survive at all. So, if we begin to see palm trees survive in areas where it's typically too cold to grow, it is a good indicator of a changing climate. "They're the canaries in the coal mine, because they're quite sensitive to the warmth and the cold," he said. Studying fossils from a time when Earth was undergoing a major transition in climate helps scientists better understand the currently changing climate. "Palms are a harbinger of what's coming." Greenwood would like to go back to where the palm was found, about 18 kilometres southwest of Edmonton. "There are still a lot of things we don't know about this little palm ... we might even find seeds." There have been previous palm fossil finds in Alberta from the Cretaceous era and some from the Eocene found in coastal regions and the interior of B.C. But Christopher West, a doctoral candidate from the University of Saskatchewan who worked on the project, said in a release that "Paleocene palm fossils were always missing in Canada though, and this research helps to fill in some of the gaps in the palm fossil record." About the Author Nicole Mortillaro Senior Reporter, Science Nicole has an avid interest in all things science. As an amateur astronomer, Nicole can be found looking up at the night sky appreciating the marvels of our universe. She is the editor of the Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada and the author of several books. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Feathered dinosaur tail found trapped in amber Cone-shaped sea creatures finally get place on evolutionary tree 'It's a pretty rare dinosaur': Alberta paleontologist hopes to find Troodon Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca