https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/breathing-smog-over-long-term-can-lead-to-an-early-grave-study-1.787741
Breathing smog over long-term can lead to an early grave: study | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Breathing smog over long-term can lead to an early grave: study Social Sharing Technology & Science Breathing smog over long-term can lead to an early grave: study Smoggy ozone pollution not only sickens, but long-term exposure can be deadly, say Canadian and American researchers who conducted a study of the chronic impact of ozone on human health. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Mar 11, 2009 5:08 PM ET | Last Updated: March 11, 2009 Smoggy ozone pollution not only sickens, but long-term exposure can be deadly, according to Canadian and American researchers who conducted a study of the chronic impact of ozone on human health. "This is the first time we've been able to connect chronic exposure to ozone — one of the most widespread pollutants in the world — with the risk of death, arguably the most important outcome in health impact studies used to justify air quality regulations," said the study's lead author Michael Jerrett, a professor of environmental health sciences at the University of California, Berkeley. The 23-year study, which appears in Thursday's issue of the New England Journal of Medicine, analyzed the risk of death from two common parts of air pollution — ozone and fine particulate matter —for 450,000 people living in smoggy California to the pristine Midwest. The researchers found that for every 10 parts-per-billion or ppb increase in ozone level, there was a four per cent increase in risk of death from respiratory causes, mainly pneumonia and chronic pulmonary obstructive pulmonary disease. Cumulative effect on health A four per cent increase translates into thousands of excess deaths each year, Jerrett said. Much of Southern Ontario, parts of Alberta and southern British Columbia face those dangerous levels of the pollutant. "We see that individuals in high ozone environments are in about a three-fold increase in risk compared to those in the lowest ozone environments," said study author Daniel Krewski of the University of Ottawa. "What this study says is that to protect the public's health, we can't just reduce the peaks, we must also reduce long-term cumulative exposure," added study author Prof. George Thurston, a professor in environmental medicine at New York University's school of medicine. The findings show the need to step up the fight against pollution, said respirologist Dr. Gerald Cox of St. Joseph's Hospital in Hamilton, Ont., commenting on the research. Feels like pounding on the chest "It changes our standards and changes our focus and changes our target for what we would regards as acceptable ozone exposure," Cox said. For Debbie Valentini of Toronto, who has had asthma her whole life, the city's smog alerts are unavoidable. Within five minutes of being outside, she said, her chest tightens up. "I even take my rescue inhaler 15 minutes before I leave the house to prepare myself, but in the heat and really bad smog days, there's nothing I can do," Valentini said. "It just hits me, and it's just like somebody pounding me right in the chest." Barring a reduction in air pollution, the only other way for people living in high smog areas to cut their risk of death is to move to rural areas. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories IN DEPTH: The dirt on smog External Links Abstract of ozone study, New England Journal of Medicine Abstract of ozone study, New England Journal of Medicine Abstract of ozone study, New England Journal of Medicine Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca