https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/fossil-toddler-skeleton-found-in-africa-1.606843
Fossil toddler skeleton found in Africa | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Fossil toddler skeleton found in Africa Social Sharing Technology & Science Fossil toddler skeleton found in Africa A nearly intact skeleton of a three-year-old female human ancestor, the same species as the famed Lucy skeleton, has been found in Ethiopia. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Sep 20, 2006 1:14 PM ET | Last Updated: September 20, 2006 A nearly intact skeleton of a three-year-old female human ancestor, the same species as the famed Lucy skeleton, has been found in Ethiopia. The juvenile skeleton of Australopithecus afarensis will fill an important gap in the understanding of the species, thought to be an early human ancestor, said William Kimbel, a paleoanthropologist at Arizona State University. Kimbel said a complete skeleton of Australopithecus is "extraordinarily rare." "It's unprecedented to have such a complete skeleton of a young child," said Kimbel in a statement. The skeleton was discovered in Dikika, Ethiopia, by Zeresenay Alemseged, a former postdoctoral researcher at Arizona State, now at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Germany. Kimbel was part of the team that studied the 3.3-million-year-old fossilized skeleton, which included scientists in the U.S., U.K. and France. Their research is published in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. The remains include a skull and jaws, including teeth, and parts of the shoulders, spinal column, ribs, right arm, fingers, legs and left foot. They also include a hyoid, a bone located in the voice-boxthat supports the muscles involved in speech. It is the first time the bone has been found this early in the homonin fossil record. Fred Spoor of University College London said the fossil hyoid was more similar to bones found in apes than those found in humans. In their analysis of the skeleton, Alemseged and his team said the skeleton's lower body is adapted for walking, but the upper body shows some gorilla-like qualities. Some researchers say the ape-like shoulder blade shows that the species spent some time climbing trees, while others say the upper-body features are retained from an ancestor but aren't functional. "The mix of features in this skeleton is going to stir up the debate about locomotion in early Australopithecus," Kimbel said in statement. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Nature Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca