https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/migrating-birds-show-better-long-term-memories-1.374931
Migrating birds show better long-term memories | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Migrating birds show better long-term memories Social Sharing Technology & Science Migrating birds show better long-term memories Migrating garden warblers had better long-term memories for food source than nonmigrants: study Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Apr 29, 2003 3:17 PM ET | Last Updated: April 29, 2003 Migrating birds may have evolved better long-term memories than non-migrants, researchers say. Scientists knew young migrants use the sun, stars and earth's magnetic field to guide their first journey. Evidence suggested older birds learn more complex navigation systems and may memorize the best places to build nests and find food. Studies comparing the brain anatomy of migratory birds to non-migrants also found the travellers tend to have a larger hippocampus, a crucial brain region for processing spatial information. But researchers had trouble testing how long the migration memories last in birds. To find out, German researchers hand-reared garden warblers, which migrate, and compared their memories to the closely related Sardinian warblers, which do not migrate. Both species live in similar habitats and eat the same kinds of foods. Claudia Mettke-Hofmann and Eberhard Gwinner of the Max Planck Research Centre for Ornithology in Andechs, Germany left both species in a pair of attached rooms for 8 hours. One room contained food and the other did not. The birds were reintroduced to the rooms after delays ranging from four days to a year. Migratory garden warblers spent more time searching the room that had previously contained food up to a year later, while the Sicilian warblers' preference for the room lasted about four weeks. The researchers concluded that migration helps birds develop stronger memories to find the best stopover spots and breeding grounds. They note the experiment involved only two types of birds and other factors may be involved in the birds memories. The study appears in this week's online issue of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links abstract of study: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca