https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/warming-climate-threatens-ocean-life-nasa-study-finds-1.610483
Warming climate threatens ocean life, NASA study finds | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Warming climate threatens ocean life, NASA study finds Social Sharing Technology & Science Warming climate threatens ocean life, NASA study finds Rising planetary temperatures are linked to declines in the main food source for ocean-dwelling animals, threatening fisheries and potentially heralding ecological change, according to a NASA study to be published Thursday. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Dec 06, 2006 7:13 PM ET | Last Updated: December 7, 2006 Rising planetary temperatures are linked to declines in the main food source for ocean-dwelling animals, threatening fisheries and potentially heralding ecological change, according to a NASA study to be published Thursday. The study compared nearly a decade of global ocean satellite data with records of the global climatic change and found that microscopic phytoplankton declined whenever temperatures rose. Conversely, the marine plant life became more productive when temperatures fell. The report's findings, to be published in the science journal Nature, signify a dramatic warning of planetary climate change and the future of ocean life, researchers suggest. "This study shows that as the climate warms, phytoplankton growth rates go down and along with them the amount of carbon dioxide these ocean plants consume," the study's lead author, Michael Behrenfeld of Oregon State University, said in a written statement. The result is an increase in carbon dioxide levels, which in turn leads to more warming, he said. "It is only by understanding how climate and life on Earth are linked that we can realistically hope to predict how the Earth will be able to support life in the future," said Gene Carl Feldman of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md. Phytoplankton are microscopic plants that dwell in the ocean's sunlit upper layer. Phytoplankton growth changes affect the output of fisheries, marine birds and the amount of carbon dioxide the oceans remove from the atmosphere. The study's findings stem from a NASA-funded analysis of data from the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS) on the OrbView-2 spacecraft, launched in 1997. SeaWiFS is jointly operated by NASA and the world's largest commercial remote-sensing company, GeoEye of Dulles, Va. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca