https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/sex-with-neanderthals-boosted-human-immunity-1.996348
Sex with Neanderthals boosted human immunity | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Sex with Neanderthals boosted human immunity Social Sharing Technology & Science Sex with Neanderthals boosted human immunity Some immune system genes carried by modern humans came from interbreeding with Neanderthals and other ancient hominins called Denisovans, a new study has found. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Aug 26, 2011 3:23 PM ET | Last Updated: August 26, 2011 Some immune system genes carried by modern humans came from interbreeding with Neanderthals and other ancient hominins called Denisovans, a new study suggests. "The cross breeding wasn't just a random event that happened," said Peter Parham, who co-authored the study published online in Science Express, in a statement. "It gave something useful to the gene pool of the modern human." Parham, a professor of microbiology and immunology at California's Stanford University, and his collaborators analyzed a family of immune system genes called human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes, which are extremely varied and help the body recognize and destroy disease-causing pathogens. They sequenced and compared HLA genes from humans with those from: Neanderthals, who lived in West Asia and Europe and died out 30,000 years ago. Denisovans, a group of hominins who lived in East Asia 30,000 to 50,000 years ago and were discovered in 2008 from a finger bone and a tooth in a cave in Siberia. Those are still the only known Denisovan remains. Hominins and hominids Humans are part of a larger group of closely related human-like species, such as Neanderthals, called hominins. All hominins are themselves part of a larger group known as hominids that includes all the great apes such as chimpanzees and gorillas. What the researchers found was that humans outside Africa share certain HLA genes with Denisovans and certain HLA genes with Neanderthals. This suggests that these genes entered the human genome through interbreeding with those other hominin groups after humans spread out of Africa 65,000 years ago. A Denisovan gene variant called HLA-B*73 was most common in West Asia, leading scientists to believe that was "the most likely site for the fortuitous mating to have taken place," said a Stanford University news release. While Neanderthal genes typically make up one to six per cent of the genome of humans from outside Africa, Parham said, Neanderthal and Denisovan HLA genes account for a much higher percentage of HLA gene variants. For one class of HLA genes, over half the variants in Europeans, 80 per cent in Asians and 95 per cent of variants in Papua New Guineans originally came from Neanderthals and Denisovans. That suggests that these variants gave a survival advantage to humans who carried them, the researchers concluded. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Humans, Neanderthals got it on New genome shows Neanderthal trace in humans QUIRKS & QUARKS: Neanderthals in the family External Links Abstract in Science Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca