https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/mountain-gorillas-covid-19-1.5506453
Coronavirus risk to rare mountain gorillas prompts tourist bans | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Coronavirus risk to rare mountain gorillas prompts tourist bans Social Sharing Technology & Science Coronavirus risk to rare mountain gorillas prompts tourist bans Parks where rare mountain gorillas live are being closed to visitors, citing "advice from scientific experts indicating that primates, including mountain gorillas, are likely susceptible to complications arising from the COVID-19 virus." Social Sharing Gorillas are prone to respiratory illnesses and can even be killed by a common cold The Associated Press · Posted: Mar 23, 2020 8:50 AM ET | Last Updated: March 23 A young mountain gorilla is seen in the Virunga National Park in eastern Congo in a 2011 photo. The park, home to about a third of the world's mountain gorillas, has barred visitors until June 1, 2020, citing 'advice from scientific experts indicating that primates, including mountain gorillas, are likely susceptible to complications arising from the COVID-19 virus.' (Jerome Delay/The Associated Press) comments As the coronavirus infects more people around the world, conservationists are warning of the risk to another vulnerable species: Africa's endangered mountain gorilla. Congo's Virunga National Park, home to about a third of the world's mountain gorillas, is barring visitors until June 1, citing "advice from scientific experts indicating that primates, including mountain gorillas, are likely susceptible to complications arising from the COVID-19 virus." Neighbouring Rwanda also is temporarily shutting down tourism and research activities in three national parks that are home to primates such as gorillas and chimpanzees. Mountain gorillas are prone to some respiratory illnesses that afflict humans. A common cold can kill a gorilla, according to the World Wide Fund for Nature, one reason why tourists tracking gorillas are not normally permitted to get too close. Around 1,000 mountain gorillas live in protected areas in Congo, Uganda and Rwanda, for whom tourism is an important source of revenue. But COVID-19 has led to restrictive measures. Virunga National Park's decision has been welcomed by conservationists in the region. Paula Kahumbu, chief executive of the Kenya-based conservation group WildlifeDirect, told The Associated Press that "every possible effort must be made" to protect mountain gorillas because so few are left in the wild. "We know that gorillas are very sensitive to human diseases," she said. "If anyone has a cold or a flu they are not allowed to go and see the gorillas. With coronavirus having such a long time of no symptoms in some cases, it means that we could actually put those gorillas at risk." Protective rules often broken Even existing measures may not be enough to protect them. According to Ugandan conservationist Gladys Kalema-Zikusoka with Conservation Through Public Health, a study published this year by her group and Ohio University showed that measures in place to protect gorillas from humans are not effective in practice. A tourist and park rangers wear protective masks as they visit the Virunga National Park in eastern Congo in 2014. Gorillas are prone to respiratory illnesses and can even be killed by a common cold. (Jerome Delay/The Associated Press) The rule on keeping a safe distance from the gorillas was broken almost every time a group of tourists visited, she said. "What the research found is that the seven-metre rule was broken almost all the time — like 98 per cent of the time," she said. "But what was interesting is that 60 per cent of the time it was tourists that broke it and 40 per cent of the time it was the gorillas who broke it." If close interaction cannot be prevented, she said, one measure that could potentially improve safety is requiring tourists to wear masks at all times. No gorilla tourism shutdown in Uganda Uganda has not announced a shutdown of gorilla tourism, although tourist traffic from Europe and elsewhere has dwindled. A spokesperson for the Uganda Wildlife Authority, Bashir Hangi, said the decision on whether to shut down gorilla tourism is now academic as there is almost no business amid the outbreak. Still, he said, the few tourists who come are screened for fever and other symptoms and must obey rules such as not standing within seven metres of a gorilla family. Visitors from virus-affected countries who have gone through quarantine in Uganda need to produce what he called a certificate of isolation before they are permitted to track the gorillas. In this Sept. 2, 2019 photo, a silverback mountain gorilla named Segasira sits among plants in the Volcanoes National Park, Rwanda. Rwanda is temporarily shutting down tourism and research activities in three national parks that are home to primates such as gorillas and chimpanzees. (Felipe Dana/The Associated Press) Amos Wekesa, whose Great Lakes Safaris organizes gorilla tours in Rwanda and Uganda, spoke mournfully of "hardly any business" as tourists postpone visits or seek refunds. The region's mountain gorilla population dropped sharply in the past century because of poaching, illness and human encroachment. Mountain gorillas have been listed as critically endangered or endangered since 1996, although their numbers are now said to be growing as a result of conservation efforts. Scientists find how deadly malaria parasite jumped from gorillas to humans Your guide to COVID-19 and its impact on life in Canada But there have been painful losses. Some gorillas die of natural causes, falling from trees or being killed in fights between males for territory or dominance. A lightning strike killed four mountain gorillas in February. In Rwanda, where tourism is the top foreign exchange earner, the government has prioritized the protection of gorillas, even launching a naming ceremony for baby primates. Tourism revenue is key in protecting mountain gorillas as authorities can use some of the money to help local communities or invest in anti-poaching activities. A gorilla tracking permit costs up to $870 Cdn in Uganda, and thousands of tourists pay each year. A similar permit costs upward of $1,500 Cdn in Rwanda. After facing near extinction, mountain gorilla population grows THE LATEST Coronavirus: What's happening in Canada and around the world on March 23 Some worry the loss of tourist revenue during the coronavirus pandemic could further expose the primates to poachers. Virunga, established in 1925 as Africa's first national park and now a UNESCO World Heritage Site, has long been vulnerable in a volatile part of eastern Congo. "I think this is going to have a huge impact on their sustainability," Kahumbu, the Kenyan conservationist, said of Virunga. "I call on all donors and governments that support these national parks in Africa to make it easy for the parks that need to shut down to do so and survive." Poachers could do even more damage to gorillas if they think the anti-poaching efforts have been reduced, she said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Scientists find how deadly malaria parasite jumped from gorillas to humans After facing near extinction, mountain gorilla population grows Your guide to COVID-19 and its impact on life in Canada THE LATEST Coronavirus: What's happening in Canada and around the world on March 23 Add some “good” to your morning and evening. A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you. Sign up now Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca