http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/bird-wings-amber-1.3655942
Bird wings from Age of Dinosaurs found trapped in amber | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Bird wings from Age of Dinosaurs found trapped in amber Social Sharing Technology & Science Bird wings from Age of Dinosaurs found trapped in amber Ninety-nine million years ago, two baby birds met an unfortunate end and their severed wings became encased in amber. This is their story. Social Sharing Hummingbird-sized baby Enantiornithes birds lived 99 million years ago Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Jun 28, 2016 11:38 AM ET | Last Updated: June 28, 2016 Scientists have found samples of amber containing the beautifully preserved wings of birds that lived 99 million years ago, complete with different kinds of feathers still attached to the skin. (R.C. McKellar/Royal Saskatchewan Museum) comments Ninety-nine million years ago, two baby birds met an unfortunate end and their severed wings became encased in amber. Now those beautifully preserved wings, complete with different kinds of feathers of different colours still attached to the skin, are revealing new insights about the evolution of birds. The amber samples containing the wings were found by Lida Xing, a paleontologist at the China University of Geosciences in Beijing who previously worked and studied in Canada, at an amber market in the Kachin province of Burma, also known as Myanmar, said Ryan McKellar, a scientist at the Royal Saskatchewan Museum who collaborated on the project. McKellar is the museum's curator of invertebrate paleontology, but has previously studied feathers trapped in amber, so Xing sent him photos of the new finds. "I was blown away," McKellar said. An illustration shows the size of one of the amber samples containing a trapped wing, along with a life-sized reconstruction of the bird that the wing belonged to. (Shenna Wang) Previous feathers found in amber were individual feathers or feather fragments — these ones were the entire wings. The wing-containing amber samples, which were also studded with bubbles and a variety of insects, dated to about 99 million years ago, during the mid-Cretaceous period. That was about 45 million years after the first birds or avian dinosaurs evolved and 33 million years before the non-avian dinosaurs went extinct. At that time, the birds would have flitted among other dinosaurs in a tropical or subtropical forest that was still dominated by conifers, some of which oozed very sticky resin that hardened into amber. Dinosaur feathers found in Alberta amber Why birds were the only dinosaurs that survived mass extinction Based on close examination of the wings with microscopes and CT scans, the researchers believe the preserved wings belonged to baby birds from an extinct group of toothed birds called Enantiornithes, they reported in the journal Nature Communications. Fossils from this group show they ranged from the size of wrens to the size of starlings, but the wings belonged to chicks that were only the size of hummingbirds, McKellar said. Ryan McKellar and Lida Xing examine the Burmese amber samples containing wings from birds that lived 99 million years ago, during the mid-Cretaceous. (R.C. McKellar/Royal Saskatchewan Museum) Most modern baby birds tend to be covered in fuzz and don't grow adult plumage until later. But Enantiornithes chicks were thought to have hatched with fully formed flight feathers and be capable of crawling or flying within a few days of hatching, requiring little parental care, McKellar said. The amber samples appear to confirm that. And perhaps that precocious independence was a factor in how the chicks died. Gruesome death One of the distinctive features of Enantiornithes birds was that they had claws on their wings. In the case of one of the young birds, those claws left drag marks in the amber, suggesting it struggled in the syrupy resin. "It may have been stuck in the resin while still alive — a horrible way to go," McKellar said. The bones in the wings of the other bird were broken off cleanly at the forearm and had dried out a bit before it became fully encased in resin, suggesting that it may have been eaten by a predator that discarded the bony wings, as many modern raptors do, McKellar suggested. Oldest fossil chameleon found trapped in amber An examination of the wings show that they were walnut brown on their upper surface and pale or white underneath. "It looks like they were well-camouflaged," McKellar said. One of the amber samples show drag marks from the claw on the baby bird's wing, suggesting it became trapped while still alive and struggled in the syrupy resin, as shown in this artist's impression. (Chung-tat Cheung) While fossils of this type of bird have been found, they tend to be squished and highly compressed. In the amber samples, the researchers were able to see how they looked in 3D, including how the feathers attached to the skin follicles. They found every kind of feather that modern birds have, from down feathers to flight feathers, "with all of the adaptations you'd see with modern birds" and the same patterns of bare and feathered spots. "The basic pattern, the feather arrangement that we see in many modern birds, was already established by the mid-cretaceous," McKellar said. The amber samples also help fill a gap in the fossil record — most Cretaceous bird fossils are from either the early or late Cretaceous, not the middle part of the era. Despite the amazing preservation of the samples, Xing says it's unlikely that DNA could be extracted from them. "It's extremely difficult to obtain DNA from amber," he wrote in an email. He added that half the DNA tends to have degraded within a few tens of thousands of years, and noted that these amber samples were 99 million years old, making it unlikely that any DNA remains. Dinosaur feathers found in Alberta amber Chicken embryos grown with dinosaur-like lower legs CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Dinosaur feathers found in Alberta amber Why birds were the only dinosaurs that survived mass extinction Oldest fossil chameleon found trapped in amber Newly identified Alberta dinosaur had arm muscles fit to lift feathers Chicken embryos grown with dinosaur-like lower legs 80-million-year-old bird fossil named after 82-year-old Manitoba farmer Dinosaur nesting research at the U of C shows similarities to birds External Links Summary of the paper in Nature Communications Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca