https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/world-not-ready-for-iron-climate-change-tactic-researchers-1.706470
World not ready for iron climate change tactic: researchers | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news World not ready for iron climate change tactic: researchers Social Sharing Technology & Science World not ready for iron climate change tactic: researchers Iron deposits dropped into the ocean won't be a viable climate change solution without further study of their potential side effects, a team of researchers says. Social Sharing Scientists say more exploration needed on effectiveness, consequences CBC News · Posted: Jan 10, 2008 2:23 PM ET | Last Updated: January 10, 2008 Iron deposits dropped into the ocean won't be a viable climate change solution without further study of their potential side effects, a team of researchers says. Sixteen scientists from seven countries released a report in the journal Science on Thursday expressing concern about the process, which is touted as a way to isolate carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. "We do not understand the intended and unintended biogeochemical and ecological impacts" of ocean iron fertilization, said the group, which is headed by Ken Buesseler and Scott Doney from the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Woods Hole, Mass. Ocean iron fertilization (OIF) involves adding deposits of iron to the ocean in order to increase the rate of phytoplankton growth. Phytoplankton, which thrives on iron, absorbs carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Since 1993, oceanographers have released small amounts of iron into the ocean 12 times in order to test whether the practice could help reduce atmospheric carbon dioxide levels. But those tests weren't encompassing enough to determine what the long-term effects on the ocean's eco-system would be, the researchers warn. The group recommended further tests examining the potential effects on other organisms such as fish, seabirds and bacteria. While some private organizations are already planning to sell carbon offsets based on fertilization deposits, the researchers say it's too early to make any promises. "It is premature to sell carbon offsets from the first generation of commercial-scale OIF experiments unless there is better demonstration that OIF effectively removes (carbon dioxide)," the report said. Scientists from the U.S, Japan, New Zealand, the Netherlands, India, Germany and the U.K authored the report. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca