https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/top-10-new-species-of-2015-include-artistic-fish-fanged-frog-1.3081003
Top 10 new species of 2015 include artistic fish, fanged frog | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Top 10 new species of 2015 include artistic fish, fanged frog Social Sharing Technology & Science Top 10 new species of 2015 include artistic fish, fanged frog A fish that builds elaborate "crop circles" on the ocean floor and a fanged frog that gives birth to live tadpoles instead of laying eggs have been named among the top 10 new species of 2015. Social Sharing Annual list chosen from 18,000 species given scientific names last year CBC News · Posted: May 21, 2015 6:00 AM ET | Last Updated: May 22, 2015 Previous Next Hide caption Toggle Fullscreen1 of 0 comments A fish that builds elaborate "crop circles" on the ocean floor and a fanged frog that gives birth to live tadpoles instead of laying eggs have been named among the top 10 new species of 2015. The 10 were chosen by a panel of scientists from about 18,000 new species given scientific names last year and were announced today by the International Institute for Species Exploration at the State University of New York's College of Environmental Science and Forestry. Most of those thousands of new species are living, but a few are extinct fossils, including one dinosaur nicknamed the "chicken from hell," that appears on this year's top 10. Mysterious underwater circles containing intricate geometric designs at the bottom of the sea off Japan are made by a newly discovered species of pufferfish. (Yoji Okata) "I'm consistently just impressed every year with what people are continuing to discover," said Quentin Wheeler, the college president and founding director of the institute. The International Institute for Species Exploration has been compiling a top 10 list annually since 2008. In order to qualify, an animal or plant must have been placed somewhere on the evolutionary tree of life among its closest relatives, described in a scientific journal and given a scientific name, making it officially known to science for the first time during the past year. Some 'new' species well-known to locals Some of the species that are new to science, such as a pink bromeliad that appears on this year's list, are well-known to local people, but haven't been added to the body of scientific knowledge. These are a male (left) and female of a new species of fanged frog found in the Indonesian island of Sulawesi. (Jimmy A. McGuire) "There are probably about 50,000 species that are used by humans and I have no doubt that there are probably quite a few that are undescribed to science," Wheeler said. He thinks connecting species to science is important for several reasons: Conservation, which relies on scientists knowing what species exist and which ones are disappearing or invading other places. Understanding evolution, which relies on new species to fill gaps that may remain unfilled forever if a species goes extinct. Preserving nature's ingenious ideas for solving problems of survival, which can inspire human technology. According to the institute, scientists think there are still 10 million undiscovered species — five times the number that are known to science today. This year's top 10, in alphabetical order, are as follows: Anzu wyliei, or "chicken from hell," a feathered dinosaur that lived in North American about 67 million years ago. Balanophora coralliformis, a highly endangered parasitic plant in the Philippines that looks like coral. Cebrennus rechenbergi, a spider from Morocco that can turn cartwheels. Dendrogramma enigmatica, a mushroom-like marine animal found off the coast of Australia that may belong to an entirely new phylum or scientific group. Deuteragenia ossarium, a wasp from China that uses the smell of dead ants to hide her offspring. Limnonectes larvaepartus, a fanged frog from Indonesia that gives birth to live tadpoles instead of laying eggs. Phryganistria tamdaoensis, a giant stick insect in Vietnam that grows to be 23 centimetres long. Tillandsia religiosa, a bromeliad found in the cloud forests of northern Mexico used by the locals as part of Christmas celebrations. Phyllodesmium acanthorhinum, a sea slug found off the coast of Japan that is a "missing link" between sea slugs that eat corals and those that eat animals called hydroids. Torquigener albomaculosus, an artistic Japanese pufferfish that builds elaborate, geometric "crop circles" on the ocean floor. The animal, seen from above, seems to be related to jellyfish or comb jellies, but could belong to an entirely new group of animals. It has been named Dendrogramma enigmatica. (Jorgen Olesen) CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Top 10 species of 2014 include olinguito, Antarctic anemone External Links IISE: Top 10 new species Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca