https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/shell-jewelry-shows-neanderthal-no-dummy-researchers-1.897127
Shell jewelry shows Neanderthal no dummy: researchers | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Shell jewelry shows Neanderthal no dummy: researchers Social Sharing Technology & Science Shell jewelry shows Neanderthal no dummy: researchers The discovery of painted shells used as jewelry by Neanderthals suggests the homonids were capable of advanced and symbolic thought, scientists say. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jan 11, 2010 3:06 PM ET | Last Updated: January 11, 2010 The discovery of painted shells used as jewelry by Neanderthals suggests the homonids were capable of advanced and symbolic thought, scientists say. Joao Zilhao of the University of Bristol, U.K., and colleagues at European universities analyzed sea shells, found in what is now Murcia, Spain, that were painted and perforated, suggesting they were almost certainly used as pendants. The researchers say this is the first time that body ornamentation has been conclusively recognized in Neanderthals. Archeologists consider jewelry to be evidence of symbolic thinking and modern behaviour in early humans, Homo sapiens. "This is the first secure evidence that, some 50,000 years ago — 10 millennia before modern humans are first recorded in Europe — the behaviour of Neanderthals was symbolically organized," said Zilhao, in a statement. As well, an oyster shell found at the same site as the shell pendants contained a mixture of iron compounds that suggests it was used as a container for a cosmetic. The reddish pigment on the oyster shell was made of the iron mineral lepidocrocite, mixed with ground hematite and pyrite. The researchers say that such a mixture, when fresh, would be black and shiny. Yellow pigments found at another Neanderthal site were found to be natrojarosite, a iron compound used as a cosmetic in Ancient Egypt. This isn't the first time that pigmented shells have been found associated with Neanderthals, but it is the first time that the possibility that the artifacts were made by modern humans can be ruled out. A collection of decorated bone tools was found at a Neanderthal site near Châtelperron, France, for example, but it was dated to a time — 40,000 to 45,000 years ago — when modern humans were also in the area. Zilhao argues that both the French tools and the Spanish pendants are evidence of sophisticated and symbolic behaviour in Neanderthals. "The evidence from the Murcian sites removes the last clouds of uncertainty concerning the modernity of the behaviour and cognition of the last Neanderthals and, by implication, shows that there is no reason any more to continue to question the Neanderthal authorship of the symbolic artifacts of the Châtelperronian culture," he said. The age of the artifacts was determined using carbon dating techniques. Thomas Higham of England's University of Oxford's Radiocarbon Accelerator Unit said the age of the samples approached the limit of the technique's abilities. "We used the most refined methods of pre-treatment chemistry to obtain accurate dates for the sites involved by removing small amounts of more modern carbon contamination to discover that the shells and charcoal samples were as early as 50,000 years ago," said Higham. The research appears this week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories CBC Radio's Quirks & Quarks interview with Clive Finlayson, author of The Humans Who Went Extinct Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca