https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/was-1610-the-start-of-the-age-of-man-bob-s-blog-1.2993907
Was 1610 the start of the Age of Man? Bob's Blog | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Was 1610 the start of the Age of Man? Bob's Blog Social Sharing Technology & Science Was 1610 the start of the Age of Man? Bob's Blog A group of scientists is suggesting the year 1610 as the beginning of what has become known as the Age of Humans, a new epoch in the Earth’s history in which the dominant agent of change is humanity, writes Bob McDonald. Social Sharing New epoch in Earth’s history in which humans are the dominant agent of change Bob McDonald · CBC News · Posted: Mar 13, 2015 1:21 PM ET | Last Updated: March 18, 2015 The landing of Christopher Columbus is seen as a predecessor to the Anthropocene, or the Age of Man, a new epoch in which humans became the greatest agents of change on Earth. A recent report in the journal Nature is proposing the year 1610 as the beginning of what has become known as the Anthropocene – literally, the Age of Man – a new epoch in the Earth’s geological history in which the dominant agent of change is humanity. That was when Europeans started coming in large numbers to the Americas, not just for exploration but for exploitation. It was the start of a trade movement that triggered the beginning of a global change that is as dramatic as the major shifts in the Earth’s environment that have happened in the geological past. Quirks & Quarks: Oldest human species discovered The Anthropocene epoch is so dramatic, it will be visible millions of years from now as a layer in the Earth’s crust. The idea of a new epoch remains controversial, and is embraced by environmental scientists but largely rejected by geologists. The term Anthropocene was coined in 1922 by Russian geologist Alexei Pavlov, who described the present time as an Anthropogenic System, referring to the human influence on the Earth’s ecosystem. It was intended to be the latest in a long list of geologic time frames that have marked great changes in the Earth’s history, such as the Cambrian, Jurassic or Pleistocene. Scientists define these time periods by different layers of sedimentary rock, ice cores, tree rings or mud from the bottom of lakes. This geological calendar chronicles periods throughout the Earth’s history when conditions on the planet were very different than what we experience today. They tell us how continents have moved, when animals on land and in the seas evolved, then became extinct. Many of these shifts in the environment were from meteor impacts, volcanic eruptions and variations in solar activity that were so dramatic, they were literally felt around the world. We know that today, another major extinction event is taking place, as species are disappearing at a rate that is greater than the one that eliminated the dinosaurs. At the same time, the climate is changing, vegetation is shifting around the globe – in fact, the very face of the planet is transforming – all because of human activity. In other words, we are causing a global change on the same scale as the profound geological changes in the past, so our presence will remain in the Earth’s geological record. A confluence of global changes The question is, when did the Anthropocene actually begin? Some have argued it should be at the emergence of agriculture, roughly 10,000 years ago, which began the transformation of the land. Others say it should be the beginning of the Industrial Revolution in the 1700s, when fossil fuels came into favour and began heating up the atmosphere. The Pleistocene era lasted more than two million years, ending after the last Ice Age, 11,700 years ago, and coinciding with the extinction of many gigantic mammals, such as woolly mammoths in North America. While these changes did eventually become global in their effect, they started in only certain parts of the planet. That’s why the year 1610 was chosen, because many different global changes happened at the same time. The arrival of Europeans in the Americas marked the beginning of global trade, where plants and animals were transported and transplanted between continents. Disease brought by those Europeans killed roughly 50 million native Americans, who were mostly farmers. Their abandoned farmland was taken over by forest and jungle in such a growth spurt, it sucked carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere, a dip that can be seen today in ice cores. So, it was global trade that marks the beginning of the Anthropocene Epoch. We are now in the Holocene era, but the last epoch before this – the Pleistocene – lasted more than two million years, ending after the last Ice Age, 11,700 years ago. It coincided with the extinction of many gigantic mammals, such as woolly mammoths in North America. But there is one big difference this time. The Anthropocene was brought about by humans, not by an Ice Age, or a random rock falling from the sky. Which raises an interesting question: How will the Anthropocene end? Will the extinction rate of species be so great that it will eventually include the human race, or will we be able to change the course of history towards a more sustainable existence? If it is the former, then future scientists, who may be alien visitors, will discover the Anthropocene layer poking out of the side of a hill, along with bits of plastic, glass and artifacts of a once-great civilization. They may wonder how such a global catastrophe happened, when it was entirely preventable. About the Author Bob McDonald Bob McDonald is the host of CBC Radio's award-winning weekly science program, Quirks & Quarks. He is also a science commentator for CBC News Network and CBC-TV's The National. He has received 12 honorary degrees and is an Officer of the Order of Canada. Quirks & Quarks Bob McDonald RSS feed Bob McDonald's recent columns Bob McDonald's archived columns, 2006 to June 2014 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Crowded planet: Should we care how many billions of us are out there? Early humans in Western Europe 1.3 million years ago, study suggests Early humans colonized Indonesian island Quirks & Quarks Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca