https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/the-martian-science-1.3227670
TIFF 2015: The Martian gives intimate view of Mars, today's space technology | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news TIFF 2015: The Martian gives intimate view of Mars, today's space technology Social Sharing Technology & Science TIFF 2015: The Martian gives intimate view of Mars, today's space technology The Martian, which opens in theatres Oct. 2, gives you an intimate, unique view of Mars - showing you how close we are to exploring Red Planet and yet how challenging that will be. Social Sharing Science and technology are Matt Damon's biggest co-stars in Ridley Scott's latest sci-fi film Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Sep 15, 2015 5:00 AM ET | Last Updated: October 2, 2015 Matt Damon plays Mark Watney in The Martian, directed by Ridley Scott. The movie about an astronaut stranded on Mars had its world premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival this past weekend. (The Associated Press) comments If you were stranded alone on Mars with hardly any food, oxygen, water and a limited supply of space technology and duct tape, what would you need to do to survive? "I'm going to have to science the shit out of this," concludes astronaut Mark Watney, played by Matt Damon, in The Martian, when confronted by yet more attempts by the Red Planet to kill him. Mars One plan has potentially deadly flaws, scientists say Mars mission at Canadian space simulator gives taste of astronaut life In the latest film from producer and director Ridley Scott (Alien, Blade Runner, Gladiator), set in 2035, Watney is part of the third manned mission to Mars. He's left behind by his five crew-mates, who think he's dead, when they blast off and escape from Mars during a violent windstorm. The movie is based on a bestselling novel by Andy Weir, whose goal was to write a story about a manned mission to Mars using today's technology – "no made up stuff," he told CBC News in an interview following the film's world premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival this weekend. The movie is based on a bestselling novel by Andy Weir, seen here at NASA's Mars Mission Control Center. His goal was to write a story about a manned mission to Mars using today's technology – 'no made-up stuff,' he told CBC News. (James Blair and Lauren Harnett/NASA) Weir, a computer programmer, imagined what would happen if things went wrong: "What if all these things break?" That's the problem that Watney is confronted with – left wounded, with no way of communicating with Earth, no ship to leave on and food supplies that can't possibly last until the earliest potential rescue years from now, the botanist-engineer-astronaut relies on science to help him hack together the resources he needs from the limited supplies at hand. Almost every solution goes wrong the first time (growing potatoes from human feces on Mars is a lot more complicated than you might think), resulting in explosions and other disasters. But the wisecracking Watney's sense of humour and his will to "science up" a way to survive are unflagging, driving the story forward, albeit in a rather predictable way. A new view of Mars Along the way, the viewer gets an intimate view of Mars as you've never seen it. Scott's trademark sweeping panoramas feature Watney looking tiny against red landscapes with soaring cliffs and rock formations, a giant volcano and skies decorated with funnel clouds (filmed in Jordan, with special effects added). Most closeups of Mars we've seen have been the ground-level perspective of NASA's rovers. Mars rovers' coolest pics Scott calls that "boring, flat, reddish ground." He aimed to show more dramatic parts of Mars's topography from a different perspective based on high-resolution images taken by satellites orbiting Mars. Scott's trademark sweeping panoramas feature Watney looking tiny against red landscapes with soaring cliffs and rock formations very different from those captured by NASA's Mars rovers. (Twentieth Century Fox) Anyone who has read Weir's book will find the movie makes them aware of how visually sparse the book is, which Weir says is deliberate ("Who wants to read about what a mountain range looks like?"). In a sense, it fills in some of the gaps in the book (but not all of them – we ultimately find out very little about the characters in either the book or the movie, Watney included). Some of the visualizations – especially the huge spaceship Hermes, designed to shuttle astronauts between Earth and Mars – surprised even Weir. "Hermes doesn't look anything like I imagined… but it's awesome," he said. Subtle science Director Ridley Scott, seen here at a press conference at the Toronto International Film Festival. When introducing The Martian at its gala screening on Friday, he called it 'particularly complex on paper.' (Richard Shotwell/Invision/Associated Press) But the movie leaves different gaps than the book — in a sense, it's complementary. Weir's book includes detailed calculations and scientific explanations, sometimes drawn out over many pages. In the movie, the science is sometimes compressed into a seconds-long scene followed by Watney's brief explanation for the camera, or represented by subtle details in the background or props. "Everything is scientifically accurate," Weir said. "They just don't bother to explain it to you, which is good because otherwise it would be very boring." When introducing the film at TIFF, Scott called it "particularly complex on paper." The zero-gravity sequences were the hardest to pull off, Scott said, partly because of the cumbersome computer control required — "people on wires are a pain in the ass." Hollywood dust storm Jim Green, director for planetary science at NASA — the real-life counterpart of the film's Vincent Kapoor, played by Chiwetel Ejiofor — said the biggest scientific inaccuracy in the movie is the dark, raging dust storm that opens the movie. The electrical systems of NASA's Curiosity Mars rover, seen in a self-portrait, are powered by a radioisotope thermoelectric generator, like the plutonium-filled heat and power source that plays a big role in The Martian. (MSSS/JPL-Caltech/NASA/The Associated Press) "We never have anything like that on Mars today," Green said. While there are hurricane-speed winds on Mars, the atmosphere is so thin that they can't apply much force. "It's not enough to straighten an American flag" – let alone tip over a spacecraft as it nearly does in the movie. Scott shrugs at that. "What the hell?" he says. "It's a movie." I was quite surprised to learn that some of the technology described in The Martian is as close to reality as it is: The ion engine technology that powers Hermes will power an unmanned spaceship that is expected to launch during the 2020s, NASA's Green says. The ship will be part of NASA's "asteroid redirect mission" to pull a multi-tonne boulder off an asteroid and bring it into stable orbit around the moon for astronauts to explore. The radioisotope thermoelectric generator — the plutonium-filled heat and power source that plays a big role in the story — is what powers the electrical systems of the Curiosity rover that is already on Mars. An oxygenator that pulls carbon dioxide out of Mars's atmosphere and converts it into breathable oxygen, similar to the one in the Hab (Watney's home on the Red Planet), will head to Mars aboard the Mars 2020 rover in just five years for testing. In fact, Weir says, some of the challenges that Watney experiences could be solved by the latest technology today, six years after he started writing the book. New Mars space suit unveiled by NASA For example, Watney relies on filters in his space suit to remove the carbon dioxide he breathes out and stop him from suffocating, but those can only absorb a limited amount of carbon dioxide before they stop working. NASA recently developed a new system that doesn't have such limitations. "The Martian takes place in 2035," Weir said. "It's 2015, and already those canisters are outdated technology." The Martian opens in theatres Oct. 2. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Mars mission at Canadian space simulator gives taste of astronaut life TIFF 2015: 5 cool things about this year's film fest Matt Damon mocks Republicans with support for wall across Canadian border Blog Fire at Mars test habitat shows dangers of manned mission Mars One plan has potentially deadly flaws, scientists say Mars astronauts risk brain damage from cosmic rays Mars simulation project: 6 people start 1 year of isolation in Hawaii dome University of Saskatchewan team wins Mars Rover competition External Links 9 real NASA technologies in The Martian The Martian on IMDb Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca