http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/story/2012/04/24/tech-nasa-enterprise-flight.html
NASA's Enterprise flight delayed by NYC weather | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news NASA's Enterprise flight delayed by NYC weather Social Sharing Technology & Science NASA's Enterprise flight delayed by NYC weather NASA's scheduled flight of space shuttle Enterprise to New York City has been scuppered by a week of poor weather conditions, which have now pushed the delivery of the prototype orbiter back to Friday, the U.S. space agency says. Social Sharing Prototype space shuttle to be delivered by Friday at the earliest CBC News · Posted: Apr 24, 2012 2:27 PM ET | Last Updated: April 25, 2012 The space shuttle Enterprise is mated on top of the NASA 747 Shuttle Carrier Aircraft at Washington Dulles International Airport, in Sterling, Va. The flight was pushed back until April 27 due to inclement weather in the East Coast. (NASA) NASA's scheduled delivery of space shuttle Enterprise to New York City has been scuppered by a week of poor weather conditions, which have now pushed the flight of the prototype orbiter back to Friday, the U.S. space agency says. A Boeing 747 jumbo retooled by NASA to haul Enterprise on its back was due to arrive at New York's John F. Kennedy Airport from a museum in suburban Virginia Monday, but forecasts of inclement weather forced the delays until the end of the week. "Managers now are tentatively targeting the flight for Friday, April 27, weather permitting," NASA said in a statement released Tuesday. Rain and wind from a weekend storm over the East Coast were blamed for the date changes. If weather is as favourable as expected on Friday, NASA's retooled 747 "Shuttle Carrier Aircraft" — with Enterprise mounted on top — should fly at low enough altitudes to be spotted by New Yorkers near landmarks such as the Statue of Liberty. Enterprise never flew in space, but it was used in the 1970s for landing tests. For nine years, it sat as a museum display at the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum's Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center in Chantilly, Va., but it has since been displaced by the space shuttle Discovery. After its arrival in New York, Enterprise will be transported by tugboat up the Hudson River to the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum. It will then be put on display this summer in a climate-controlled facility. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links NASA Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca