https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/t-rex-s-tail-made-it-speedy-1.963765
T. rex's tail made it speedy | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news T. rex's tail made it speedy Social Sharing Technology & Science T. rex's tail made it speedy Tyrannosaurus rex was likely one of the fastest predators of the Cretaceous era, thanks to a massively muscular tail, Alberta researchers have found. Social Sharing Dinosaur 'had more than just junk in its trunk': Alta. researcher CBC News · Posted: Nov 17, 2010 9:21 AM ET | Last Updated: November 17, 2010 Tyrannosaurus rex was likely one of the fastest predators of the Cretaceous era, thanks to a massively muscular tail, Alberta researchers have found. The findings published in the journal The Anatomical Record contradict earlier theories that suggested the dinosaur was a slow-moving scavenger whose tail served mainly to counterbalance the weight of its massive head. "T. rex had more than just junk in its trunk," said Scott Persons, lead author of the study, in a statement. Persons, a master's student in paleontology at the University of Alberta in Edmonton, found the dinosaur's tail had a unique feature that would have allowed it to grow proportionately much larger tail muscles than modern-day reptiles such as crocodiles and Komodo dragons — something overlooked by previous studies. Tail muscles attached to the upper leg bones in both dinosaurs and modern-day reptiles provide power when they run. But when Persons compared the location of the lowest rib bones in modern-day reptiles and T. rex, he found the dinosaur's ribs were much higher on the tail, leaving room for the tail muscles to grow to a massive size. Based on the tail-bone examinations and computer modeling, the researchers concluded that previous studies underestimated the amount of muscle mass in T. rex 's tail by up to 45 per cent. That means the predator could likely outrun any other animal in its ecosystem, Persons said. The study was co-authored by Philip Currie, a University of Alberta professor. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories T. rex was a cannibal T. rex killed by parasite, not combat, scientists say T. Rex had a nose for hunting, Alberta researchers say External Links Abstract of the article in The Anatomical Record Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca