https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/astronauts-dock-experiments-at-space-station-porch-1.810031
Astronauts dock experiments at space station 'porch' | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Astronauts dock experiments at space station 'porch' Social Sharing Technology & Science Astronauts dock experiments at space station 'porch' Canadian Julie Payette and fellow astronauts moved a pallet of experiments from the shuttle Endeavour and place them next to the new "porch" of the International Space Station on Tuesday. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 21, 2009 12:38 PM ET | Last Updated: July 21, 2009 Canadian astronaut Julie Payette and her crew mates used two Canadian robotic arms to move a pallet of experiments from the shuttle Endeavour and place them next to the new "porch" of the International Space Station on Tuesday. The pallet was successfully attached to the new Japanese Exposed Section of the Kibo laboratory at 10:36 a.m. ET, NASA reported. That will allow the new Japanese Kibo robotic arm to transfer them Thursday to what NASA is calling the new "porch," which was installed on Saturday. The addition will let scientists expose their experiments directly to the extreme environment of space. The shuttle Endeavour, which launched last Wednesday, carried both the porch and the temporary storage pallet up to the station. The shuttle also brought with it Payette and six other astronauts, who joined the six astronauts already on the station, including fellow Canadian Bob Thirsk. Payette, a mission specialist, and shuttle commander Mark Polansky operated the Endeavour's Canadarm, which lifted the pallet out of the shuttle bay and passed it off to the space station's Canadarm2 on Tuesday morning. That robotic arm, operated by astronauts Koichi Wakata and Doug Hurley, attached the pallet to the porch as the station passed over Japan. Payette then radioed the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency mission control team in Tsukuba, Japan, to let them know about the successful docking, NASA reported. The astronauts are scheduled to take part in another spacewalk on Wednesday, and were to prepare for that Tuesday. Japan's new Kibo robotic arm is scheduled to move three Japanese experiments from the pallet to the new porch on Thursday, then the pallet will be returned to the shuttle and brought back to Earth. Future experiments will be moved to the platform from the inside of the station using the laboratory's airlock. If all goes well, Endeavour will return to Earth and land on July 31 at 10:45 a.m. ET. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Successful spacewalk on moon-landing anniversary Endeavour astronauts finish 1st spacewalk Canadians meet at space station Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca