https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/space-shuttle-discovery-airlifted-into-retirement-1.949380
Space shuttle Discovery airlifted into retirement | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Space shuttle Discovery airlifted into retirement Social Sharing Technology & Science·Video Space shuttle Discovery airlifted into retirement Space shuttle Discovery flew over captivated crowds of space enthusiasts for the last time today before being retired to a museum. Social Sharing Thousands gather to watch Florida takeoff before spacecraft enters Smithsonian CBC News · Posted: Apr 17, 2012 7:59 AM ET | Last Updated: April 17, 2012 Space shuttle Discovery flew over captivated crowds of space enthusiasts for the last time today before being retired to a museum. Thousands gathered to watch the retired spacecraft as it rode on the back of a 747 jumbo jet that took off from Kennedy Space Center in Florida at dawn Tuesday. The pair headed up to the Washington Monument and White House, where thousands more crowded for a glimpse the shuttle's final, mid-morning salute. Jason Zengerle and his five-year-old son Asa travelled 4.5 hours from North Carolina to watch the flyby at the Washington Monument. (Sylvia Thomson/CBC) Jason Zengerle made a 4.5-hour journey from North Carolina with his five-year-old son Asa in hopes of seizing their last chance to see the shuttle in flight. They approached the mall at the monument just before 10 a.m., catching sight of the flyby from the window of their cab. They were disappointed, thinking they had missed the big salute. Then, to their delight and that of the thousands gathered with them, the shuttle flew by twice more. "It is just beautiful," said Olivia El'Amin, who used her iPhone to shoot video of the flight. "I am overjoyed. I will share this history with my grandchildren." El'Amin, who works for the IRS, said her supervisor gave employees special permission to leave work and watch the shuttle flight. She added that she and the rest of the crowd were out to show support for NASA. Following the flyby, the shuttle and jet landed at Washington Dulles International Airport. Discovery was to be towed Thursday to the Smithsonian's National Air and Space Museum annex in northern Virginia. NASA working on Orion The shuttle ended up making several flybys, to the delight of thousands of onlookers. (Sylvia Thomson/CBC) Discovery was the most travelled vehicle in NASA's shuttle fleet, flying nearly 240 million kilometres over 39 orbital missions before retiring last year. NASA's two other remaining shuttles, Endeavour and Atlantis, also ended their service last year when the U.S. space agency wound up its 30-year-old shuttle program. Endeavour will go on display at the California Science Center in Los Angeles, while Atlantis will remain at the Kennedy Space Center. NASA is working on a new space vehicle called Orion, but it isn't expected to be ready for its first test flight until 2014. In the meantime, NASA astronauts will be relying on Russian Soyuz spacecraft to get to the International Space Station. Some private U.S. companies, such as Space Exploration Technologies Corp. or SpaceX, are also hoping to transport astronauts in the future. SpaceX is scheduled to make a demonstration launch of its Falcon rocket on April 30. With files from CBC's Sylvia Thomson and The Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Photos Space shuttles: The end of an era Shuttle Discovery: A look at the storied past of NASA's workhorse Last shuttle mission bittersweet for space aficionados Last space shuttle makes final landing Shuttle finale won't end space age, Hadfield says External Links NASA Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca