https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/ancient-marsupial-fossil-trove-found-1.906807
Ancient marsupial fossil trove found | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Ancient marsupial fossil trove found Social Sharing Technology & Science Ancient marsupial fossil trove found Scientists have discovered a cave filled with 15-million-year-old fossils of prehistoric marsupials in the Australian Outback, and they show surprising similarities to modern-day kangaroos and koalas. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Jul 16, 2010 10:37 AM ET | Last Updated: July 16, 2010 The discovery of so many fossils of the sheep-sized, extinct marsupial called Nimbadon lavarackorum in one place suggests the animals may have travelled in herds like kangaroos, said paleontologist Karen Black, who led the research team. ((The University of New South Wales, Karen Black/Associated Press)) Australian scientists have discovered a cave filled with 15-million-year-old fossils of prehistoric marsupials, a rare find that has revealed some surprising similarities between the creatures and modern-day kangaroos and koalas. Researchers have unearthed a treasure trove of beautifully preserved fossils from the cave, including 26 skulls from an extinct, sheep-sized marsupial with giant claws called Nimbadon lavarackorum. The findings were described this week in the Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology. "It's extraordinarily exciting for us," said University of New South Wales paleontologist Mike Archer, co-author of the article. "It's given us a window into the past of Australia that we simply didn't even have a pigeonhole into before. It's an extra insight into some of the strangest animals you could possibly imagine." Twenty-six skulls from individual Nimbadon of various ages were found in the cave in the Riversleigh World Heritage fossil field, in the Australian Outback. ((The University of New South Wales, Karen Black/Associated Press)) Researchers have been digging at the site, in the Riversleigh World Heritage fossil field in northwest Queensland state, since 1990. They discovered the first of the Nimbadon skulls in 1993. The scientists were amazed at how well preserved the fossils were, and by how many they found. Discovering such a large cluster suggests the animals may have travelled in mobs — or herds — like modern-day kangaroos, said paleontologist Karen Black, who led the research team. How the animals all ended up there is a mystery. One theory is that they accidentally plunged into the cave through an opening obscured by vegetation and either died from the fall, or became trapped and later perished. Babies in moms' pouches The Nimbadon skulls included those of babies still in their mothers' pouches, allowing the researchers to study how the animals developed. The skulls revealed that bones at the front of the face developed quite quickly, which would have allowed the baby to suckle from its mother at an extremely young age. Those findings suggest the Nimbadon babies developed very similarly to how kangaroos develop today — likely being born after a month's gestation and crawling into their mother's pouch for the rest of their development, Black said. The Nimbadon also may have something in common with another marsupial. The fossils revealed the creatures had large claws, which Black said may have been used to climb trees — as koalas do. The discovery of the fossils is very significant, said paleontologist Liz Reed of Flinders University in South Australia. "To find a complete specimen like that — and so many from an age range — is quite unique," said Reed, who was not affiliated with the study. "It allows us to say something about behaviour and growth and a whole bunch of things that we wouldn't normally be able to do." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca