https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/nasa-inspects-shuttle-for-launch-damage-1.803672
NASA inspects shuttle for launch damage | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news NASA inspects shuttle for launch damage Social Sharing Technology & Science NASA inspects shuttle for launch damage The space shuttle Endeavour's seven astronauts, including Canadian Julie Payette, will investigate potential damage to their spaceship as it orbits the Earth Thursday, en route to the International Space Station. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 16, 2009 9:28 AM ET | Last Updated: July 16, 2009 Canadian Space Agency astronaut Julie Payette takes a moment for a photo on the flight deck of Endeavour during postlaunch activities on Wednesday. Astronaut Doug Hurley, pilot, is visible in the background. ((Reuters/NASA)) The space shuttle Endeavour's seven astronauts, including Canadian Julie Payette, will investigate potential damage to their spaceship as it orbits the Earth Thursday, en route to the International Space Station. Images taken of Wednesday evening's launch from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida showed debris breaking off the shuttle's fuel tank and hitting Endeavour near where its right wing meets the fuselage. NASA mission control told the astronauts on Wednesday the damage did not look as extensive as what happened on the last shuttle flight, but a number of inspections will take place to confirm the safety of the craft. A mounted camera on the shuttle Endeavour's detachable fuel tank shows the curvature of the Earth. ((NASA TV)) "The bottom line is we saw some stuff," said Mike Moses, chairman of the mission management team, on Wednesday. "Some of it doesn't concern us. Some of it you just can't really speculate on right now." Engineers will need several days to evaluate launch imagery and perform other tests to ensure there are no problems, he added. Since the space shuttle Columbia and its crew in 2003 were lost during re-entry because of a hole in its wing, an inspection of the shuttle before it arrives at the space station has become standard procedure for NASA. The shuttle crew is scheduled to perform the inspection of the shuttle's heat shield Thursday afternoon using a 30-metre laser-tipped boom. Both the laser and boom were made with technology developed in Canada: Ottawa technology firm Neptec designed and built the 3D laser camera, while the space robotics division of MacDonald, Dettwiler and Associates made the boom the sensor sits atop. 2 Canadians in space Canadian astronaut Julie Payette blows a kiss to the camera as she prepares to board the space shuttle Endeavour on Wednesday. ((NASA TV)) Endeavour's seven astronauts, including Payette, are scheduled to perform five spacewalks and complete the construction of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency's Kibo experiment module at the space station during their 16-day mission. Payette, the flight engineer, will operate the shuttle's Canadarm 1, the space station's Canadarm 2 and a third mechanical arm that is to be installed on Kibo. Payette is making her second foray into space; she was the first Canadian to visit the space station, in 1999. All of the astronauts were ready to go and looking forward to carrying out the mission, she said. "I can tell you there’s nothing routine about standing next to a spacecraft or [being] strapped in inside a spacecraft. This is an immense privilege, but it’s also quite awesome," she said. The astronauts will catch up Friday with the space station, which was soaring more than 355 kilometres above the Pacific at launch time. When they do, it will be the first time 13 people are together in space. Ten is the previous record. The mission will also mark the first time two Canadians will be in space simultaneously. Robert Thirsk arrived at the space station in late May aboard a Russian space capsule for a six-month stay, the first time a Canadian has participated in a long-duration mission to space. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Shuttle launches carrying Canadian Payette PHOTO GALLERY: Payette lifts off PHOTO GALLERY: How has space innovation paid off? IN DEPTH: The International Space Station INTERACTIVE: Map of the International Space Station External Links NASA mission page Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca