https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/woolly-mammoth-dna-offers-extinction-clues-1.552135
Woolly mammoth DNA offers extinction clues | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Woolly mammoth DNA offers extinction clues Social Sharing Technology & Science Woolly mammoth DNA offers extinction clues Canadian and U.S. researchers have mapped the nuclear DNA from a woolly mammoth preserved in the Siberian permafrost. They warn of ethical concerns of bringing such animals back to life, hope to use findings to prevent extinctions. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Dec 20, 2005 11:49 AM ET | Last Updated: December 20, 2005 Mapping the DNA of a woolly mammoth means a Jurassic Park-like resurrection of an extinct species could theoretically happen, say a group of Canadian and American researchers. The scientists hit a DNA motherlode deep in the Siberian permafrost this summer when they found a 28,000-year-old jawbone of a woolly mammoth that contained nuclear DNA. "It's a tool of tremendous magnitude for paleontologists," said Hendrik Poinar, an anthropologist at Hamilton's McMaster University, who led the team that recovered the specimen. "It's a time machine to travel to the past." Using a state-of-the-art sequencing machine at Penn State University, the researchers should have a complete genome of the Ice Age mammal in about a year, a first for an extinct mammal. "It's a wonderful thing to think... that we can reach back in time with modern techniques and gain some information about an extinct animal that we never thought we'd be able to," said Ross McPhee, vertebrate zoology curator at the American Museum of Natural History in New York City. The first results are being published this week in the journal, Science. A second study by researchers from the Max Planck Institute in Leipzig, Germany reports mitochondrial DNA from outside the nucleus shows woolly mammoths are more closely related to the Asian than the African elephant. For researchers, the sample offers a roadmap of evolution. It's a chance to determine why the woolly mammoth died while the Asian elephant, is alive and thriving. The findings also mean its theoretically possible to recreate extinct species such as the fabled sabre-toothed tiger, the bear drawn on caves by early humans during the Ice Age and even Neanderthal man. "And possibly, we will have a Jurassic Park, but it will be a fraudulent kind of park because they won't be living in their contexts," McPhee cautioned. "Ecologically, it will make no sense, and economically, other than thrill value, it makes no sense. So I'm very much against it." As for recreating dinosaurs, scientists don't expect to find any frozen tissue. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Prof. Hendrik Poinar's research McMaster University Prof. Hendrik Poinar's research McMaster University Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca