https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/sky-s-polarized-light-helps-migrating-birds-navigate-1.623607
Sky's polarized light helps migrating birds navigate | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Sky's polarized light helps migrating birds navigate Social Sharing Technology & Science Sky's polarized light helps migrating birds navigate Migrating songbirds use light patterns at sunrise and sunset to calibrate their magnetic compass, scientists have found. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Aug 10, 2006 6:32 PM ET | Last Updated: August 10, 2006 Migrating songbirds use light patterns at sunrise and sunset to calibrate their internal compasses, scientists have found. Researchers knew birds used directional cues from the sun, star patterns, Earth's magnetic field and polarized light patterns in the sky to guide their migration — but how the birds combine the information to navigate has been a mystery for 30 years. No longer: U.S. researchers report in Friday's issue of the journal Science that the crucial navigational tool for birds stems from their use of polarized light near the horizon. Biologist Rachel Muheim of Virginia Tech and her colleagues showed that captured Savannah sparrows from the Yukon used polarized light patterns to set their compasses when migrating south. Polarized light is light that oscillates in one direction. At dawn and dusk, a band of polarized light intersects with the horizon 90 degrees to the right and left of the sun. Migrating birds average the intersections from sunrise and sunset to find the Earth's north-south axis— forming a reference that doesn't depend on latitude or time of year, the researchers said. Previous experiments used funnel cages that blocked the birds' view of the lower 20 degrees, leading to conflicting results. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Sun helps orient migrating monarch butterflies: study External Links Abstract of study, Science Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca