http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/greenland-melt-1.3367833
Greenland ice melt speed has doubled | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Greenland ice melt speed has doubled Social Sharing Technology & Science Greenland ice melt speed has doubled Greenland's ice sheet melted twice as fast between 2003 and 2010 as it did from 1900 to 1983, according to the first study of Greenland ice loss over the past century that is based on observations rather than models. Social Sharing New study fills gap in our knowledge of the origin of sea level rise Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Dec 16, 2015 1:18 PM ET | Last Updated: December 16, 2015 The Upernavik Glacier in northwest Greenland is melting into a lake. Greenland's ice sheet has been melting twice as fast during the 21st century as it did during the 20th. (Niels Jákup Korsgaard/Natural History Museum of Denmark) comments Greenland's ice sheet melted twice as fast between 2003 and 2010 as it did from 1900 to 1983, according to the first study of Greenland ice loss over the past century that is based on observations rather than models. Between 1900 and 2010, meltwater from Greenland boosted the global sea level by 25 millimetres, making up 10 to 18 per cent of global sea level rise, reports the new study published today by an international team of researchers, including some in Canada. The new study also shows exactly where ice has disappeared from. Generally, the places that were melting during the 20th century are the same ones that are still melting now. (Nicolaj Krog Larsen/Aarhus University) Previous estimates have suggested that Greenland contains enough ice to raise world sea levels by about six metres if it all melted – a process that could take thousands of years. The new study, published Wednesday in Nature, provides the first good estimate of how much Greenland has contributed to sea level rise so far, filling a gap in the last report by the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the researchers report. That will help make models — and future predictions — of sea level rise more reliable, said Kristian Kjeldsen, lead author of the paper. Kjeldsen is a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Ottawa and at the Centre for GeoGenetics at Natural History Museum of Denmark at the University of Copenhagen. Melting glaciers, rising sea level slow down Earth's rotation Sea level has climbed 8 centimetres since 1992 The melting of Greenland's ice sheet has been measured since 1992 using satellites, but there wasn't any direct data about how much ice had melted off Greenland before that, the researchers say. 4,000 photographs Kjeldsen and his collaborators wanted to use more direct observations to figure out both how much ice was lost during the 1900s and precisely which glaciers it came from. Greenland glacier sheds billions of tonnes of ice into ocean To do that, they turned to 3D or stereophotogrammic aerial photos captured between 1978 and 1987. The images clearly show a mark called a trimline. Below it, the landscape is a different colour, where the glaciers scraped against the rock and eroded away the vegetation. The trimline is the maximum extent of glaciers before they started retreating around 1900, the end of a cold period called The Little Ice Age. By using the trimline as a reference and combining the 4,000 aerial photos with later satellite data and "control points" of known elevation, the researchers were able to measure and reconstruct the extent of the ice in 1900, and how much it changed over time. Kangiata Nunata Sermia in southwest Greenland shows different lines that marks the extent of the ice at different points in time. The upper trimline (transition) between the lighter and darker valley sides marks the extent of the glacier during the Little Ice Age, while the lower lines shows the extent at later points in time. (Hans Henrik Tholstrup/Natural History Museum of Denmark) "What we have is an estimate that's really founded in observation," said Kjeldsen. Previously, estimates of ice lost during the 20th century came from computer models based on recent satellite data. The new study also shows exactly where ice has disappeared from. Generally, the places that were melting during the 20th century are the same ones that are still melting now, Kjeldsen said. "The pattern agreed so much going back in time." Overall, from 2003 to 2010, Greenland dumped 186 billion tonnes of meltwater a year into the world's oceans, the researchers estimated. From 1900 to 1983, the rate averaged 75 billion tonnes a year – much lower, but still significant, Kjeldsen said. "That was a little bit surprising, that it was so consistent and so high," he said. Still, he said, "The mass loss has really increased quite a bit going into the 21st century." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Melting glaciers, rising sea level slow down Earth's rotation Greenland glacier sheds billions of tonnes of ice into ocean Sea level has climbed 8 centimetres since 1992 Video Greenland's 'dark snow' climate threat worse than thought Athabasca Glacier could disappear within generation, says manager External Links Summary of the paper in Nature Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca