https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/panda-baby-boom-hits-chinese-zoos-1.945466
Panda baby boom hits Chinese zoos | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Panda baby boom hits Chinese zoos Social Sharing Technology & Science Panda baby boom hits Chinese zoos China's panda population is booming this year thanks to a record number of births in captivity, a rare accomplishment for the endangered species known for being poor breeders. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Oct 26, 2010 8:49 AM ET | Last Updated: October 26, 2010 Panda Hua Mei gave birth to her eighth cub on Sept. 17 at the Bifengxia base of the Wolong China Panda Protection and Research Centre in Ya'an, in southwest China's Sichuan province. ((Associated Press)) China's panda population is booming this year, thanks to a record number of births in captivity, a rare accomplishment for the endangered species known for being poor breeders. The most recent addition — the birth of female twins — brought the total number of births this year to 19, surpassing the record of 18 births in 2006, Tang Chunxiang, an expert at the Wolong Panda reserve in Sichuan province, said Tuesday. Giant panda "Yo Yo" gave birth to healthy twins at the reserve last week. Tang attributed this year's record number of births to better research on panda nutrition, artificial insemination, genetics and the creation of a more natural habitat for the pandas to thrive in. Pandas are threatened by a loss of habitat, poaching and a low reproduction rate. Females in the wild normally have a cub once every two or three years. Fertility rates of captive giant pandas are even lower, experts say. Only about 1,600 pandas live in the wild, mostly in Sichuan in southwest China. Through artificial insemination, researchers have been able to increase the number of pandas in captivity to more than 300 — a number that experts say should remain steady. Artificial insemination has become common practice in breeding captive pandas and was the method used to conceive this cub, one of the twins born at the Madrid Zoo in September. ((AP Photo/Paul White)) "Right now, we're breeding about the same number of pandas each year," Tang said. "We want to steady the numbers to avoid inbreeding since there are so few pandas." Panda females have only three days a year in which they can conceive — one reason their species is endangered. Some males never succeed at natural breeding, so artificial insemination has become common practice when breeding captive pandas. Previous efforts to encourage the poor breeders to mate included showing uninitiated males "panda porn," which Chinese scientists have deemed a success. It is being used at zoos overseas. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Governor General tours China quake zone China moves giant pandas from reserve in earthquake zone Captive-bred panda found dead in Chinese forest 4 panda cubs born on same day in China Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca