http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/feathered-dinosaur-evolution-birds-1.4090351
Scientists discover feathered dinosaur provides more clues to evolution of birds | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Scientists discover feathered dinosaur provides more clues to evolution of birds Social Sharing Technology & Science Scientists discover feathered dinosaur provides more clues to evolution of birds It looks like a cross between a chicken and a dinosaur, but this strange-looking creature is helping paleontologists better understand the link between dinosaurs and modern-day birds. Social Sharing Researchers say it pushes back evolution of feathers by millions of years Nicole Mortillaro · CBC News · Posted: May 03, 2017 2:30 PM ET | Last Updated: May 4, 2017 An artist's rendering of the feathered troodontid Jianianhualong tengi. (Julius T. Csotonyi 2017 / Xu, Currie, Pittman et al. 2017) A creature that looks like a cross between a chicken and a dinosaur is helping paleontologists better understand the link between dinosaurs and modern-day birds. There's a scientific consensus that birds are descended from dinosaurs, but exactly how their feathers developed and when they began to take flight isn't yet understood. Archaeopteryx's feathery details revealed by fossil Feathered dinosaur tail found trapped in amber Dinosaurs of a feather flocked together, study finds Now, a team of scientists from Canada and China has discovered a new species of feathered troodontid dinosaur, the Jianianhualong tengi, believed to have lived about 125 million years ago. Troodontids are believed to be the closest relative to birds. "Troodontids are interesting because we need to understand their evolution history if we're to fully understand how birds evolved, how their flight evolved," said Michael Pittman, from the University of Hong Kong and co-author of the paper published in Nature on Tuesday. I think there are a lot of surprises out there yet for us. - Phillip Currie, paleontologist Though the feathers are asymmetrical, the researchers don't believe Jianianhualong Tengi flew. Instead, it may have used its feathers in other ways, such as as a sexual display or to warm eggs in nests. The feathers also gave it an aerodynamic advantage, perhaps allowing it to quickly flee from predators. The fossil was discovered in northeastern China four years ago. Just as the Alberta's Badlands is known in Canada for its rich dinosaur fossils, China is a hotbed of incredibly well-preserved fossils. More to be discovered While there are still some missing gaps, the researchers said they're moving forward to fill them in. "In a way this gives us some answers and some clues, and in other ways, it says … there's something else going on," said Philip Currie, a paleontologist at the University of Alberta and another author of the paper. "It's not a black and white thing where asymmetrical feathers indicated they were flying animals, and symmetrical feathers indicated they're not flying animals. It's not that simple. It's a cautionary tale in part, and it's also one more piece in the puzzle." A photograph and line drawing of the fossil Jianianhualong tengi discovered in northeastern China. (Xu, Currie, Pittman et al. 2017) The researchers also found it interesting that Jianianhualong Tengi showed something called mosaic evolution, whereby parts of the bodies evolve without simultaneously affecting other parts. For example, its forelimbs resembled those of early troodontids, but its legs resembled later troodontids. The research serves as a reminder that there are far more species of dinosaurs waiting to be discovered. "For a long time, we thought we knew a lot of dinosaurs, but we don't," Currie said. "I don't think we've discovered more than one per cent of one per cent of the dinosaur species that lived," he said. "They were incredibly diverse animals …. When you think we know somewhere between 1,200 and 1,500 dinosaurs worldwide for 150 million years, we know nothing." About the Author Nicole Mortillaro Senior Reporter, Science Nicole has an avid interest in all things science. As an amateur astronomer, Nicole can be found looking up at the night sky appreciating the marvels of our universe. She is the editor of the Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada and the author of several books. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Fossil find reveals skunk-sized predator roamed Egypt 34 million years ago Sketching science: Meet the fossil artist who reconstructs 'lost worlds' University of Toronto researchers discover 507-million-year old sea creature Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca