https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/ancient-hominin-little-foot-lived-alongside-lucy-s-species-1.3017977
Ancient hominin Little Foot lived alongside Lucy's species | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Ancient hominin Little Foot lived alongside Lucy's species Social Sharing Technology & Science Ancient hominin Little Foot lived alongside Lucy's species Scientists have discovered that a fossil called 'Little Foot' is much older than they thought and may have been the ancestor of humans. Social Sharing New age for Little Foot means both species could be human ancestor Thomson Reuters · Posted: Apr 01, 2015 1:46 PM ET | Last Updated: April 1, 2015 Ron Clarke of Wits University is shown with Little Foot. Her species was much bigger and taller than Lucy's, with gorilla-like facial features. It walked fully upright and had very strong with powerful hands for climbing. (Wits University) comments Scientists said on Wednesday a sophisticated new dating technique shows that Little Foot, an important fossil of an early human forerunner unearthed in the 1990s in South Africa, is roughly 3.7 million years old. "The age of Little Foot has been highly debated," said geologist Darryl Granger of Purdue University in Indiana, whose research appears in the journal Nature. Summary of the paper in Nature The study's co-authors included Ryan Gibbon, an assistant professor at University of New Brunswick who helped date the fossil as a postdoctoral research in Granger's lab. Stephen Motsumi, Laurent Bruxelles and Ron Clarke work in the Silberberg Grotto at Sterkfontein, where 'Little Foot' was found. (Francis Duranthon) Some previous studies had suggested Little Foot could have lived as recently as 2.2 million years ago. But the new study suggests Little Foot, a member of the species Australopithecus prometheus, lived at roughly the same time as Australopithecus afarensis, the species whose most famous fossil, known as Lucy, comes from Ethiopia. Both species blended ape-like and human-like traits but with different features. The researchers analyzed 11 rock samples from around the nearly complete Little Foot fossil skeleton from the Sterkfontein Caves to gauge its age. The findings may have important implications about the evolutionary relationships among humankind's ancient relatives. Our species, Homo sapiens, appeared roughly 200,000 years ago. Earlier members of the human genus, Homo, date back more than 2 million years. Our genus was predated by other species on the human family tree including various representatives of the genus Australopithecus. Members of Lucy's species were contemporaries of Little Foot, although Lucy herself lived about 500,000 years later. Bigger and taller than Lucy Like Lucy, Little Foot was female. The species was much bigger and taller than Lucy's, with gorilla-like facial features but fully upright and very strong with powerful hands for climbing, according to paleoanthropologists Ron Clarke and Kathy Kuman of the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg. Its hands were proportioned like ours, with a long thumb and relatively short fingers and palm, unlike the elongated hands of modern apes. Its legs were slightly longer than its arms, unlike modern apes. The earliest stone tools found in the same cave date to around 2.18 million years ago, a similar age to tools from nearby sites. (Kathleen Kuman/Wits University) Clarke and Kuman noted similarities in facial structure and some teeth between Little Foot and the later human relative Paranthropus, indicating Little Foot's species may have been ancestral to Paranthropus or a close cousin. The new date for Little Foot indicates Lucy's species was not the only one that could have given rise to later members of the human family tree, Clarke and Kuman said. "The fact, therefore, that we have at least two (Australopithecus) species living at the same time in different parts of Africa, (about) 3.67 million years ago, raises the question of how many other species there may have been which have not yet been discovered," Clarke and Kuman said by email. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories How climate change made humans who we are Newly discovered pre-human walked near 'Lucy' Human ancestors walked 3 million years ago New hominid pushes back date of walking upright Ancient footprints show we've walked this way for 1.5 million years Fossil jawbone pushes back human evolution at least 400,000 years External Links Summary of the paper in Nature Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca