http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/polar-bear-swim-1.3542836
Polar bears forced to swim long distances as Arctic ice melts | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Polar bears forced to swim long distances as Arctic ice melts Social Sharing Technology & Science Polar bears forced to swim long distances as Arctic ice melts Scientists are concerned about the discovery that many polar bears in the Canadian Arctic are making marathon swims of several days in search of stable ice as the Beaufort Sea melts with climate change. Social Sharing 'Costly' swimming may play role in drastic population decline in Beaufort Sea, researchers fear Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Apr 19, 2016 12:48 PM ET | Last Updated: April 19, 2016 In the Beaufort Sea, when there was less sea ice, most bears made at least one swim of 50 kilometres or more (a marathon is 42.2 kilometres) – 69 per cent did so in 2012, when sea ice coverage hit a record low. (Andrew Derocher) Scientists are concerned about the discovery that many polar bears in the Canadian Arctic are making marathon swims of several days in search of stable ice as the Beaufort Sea melts with climate change. Between 2007 and 2012, Canadian researchers tracked 58 adult female polar bears and 18 young bears of both genders in the Beaufort Sea and 59 adult females in the Hudson Bay region. (Adult males weren't tracked because they often remove their collars and their necks are typically too wide to keep their collars on.) Polar bear diving record linked to melting sea ice They found the Hudson Bay bears rarely made long-distance swims. But in the Beaufort Sea, when there was less sea ice, most bears made at least one swim of 50 kilometres or more (a marathon is 42.2 kilometres) – 69 per cent did so in 2012, when sea ice coverage hit a record low. Prof. Andrew Derocher, pilot Mike Woodcock and the study's lead author, Nick Pilfold, left to right, measure a polar bear in the Beaufort Sea region in 2011. Between 2007 and 2012, the researchers tracked 58 adult female polar bears and 18 young bears of both genders in the Beaufort Sea. (Andrew Derocher) "More and more animals in the population are being caught in places that they just can't stay – so the ice that they're on is breaking up, the floes are too small, and they have to make longer distance movements to try to find better habitat," said Andrew Derocher, a University of Alberta biologist who co-authored the report, published in the journal Ecography. These bears are going for days without stopping. - Nick Pilfold, lead author of the study In fact, the researchers identified 115 long-distance swims in total during the study, 100 of them in the Beaufort Sea, with a median length of 92 kilometres or 3.4 days. On average, polar bears can swim at about two km/h. While swimming, the bears rarely rest, said Nicholas Pilfold, lead author of the study. "These bears are going for days without stopping." Pilfold, who worked on the study while he was a PhD student and postdoctoral researcher at the University of Alberta, added that swimming requires far more energy than walking. A female bear who made a record nine-day, 687-kilometres swim in 2011 lost 22 per cent of her body weight, and her yearling cub died along the way. "They [long distance swims] have a very high cost," said Pilfold, now a postdoctoral researcher at the San Diego Zoo. "The concern is that might have a negative effect on polar bear survival." Population crash Derocher said the polar bear population in the Beaufort Sea has fallen more than 50 per cent in the past 10 years. "So it is a concern that this is probably one of the factors associated with the population decline," he said. 'More and more animals in the population are being caught in places that they just can't stay,' said Andrew Derocher, a University of Alberta biologist who co-authored the new study. (Andrew Derocher) The study found no direct evidence of that – all polar bears appeared to survive the swims recorded in the study. But the researchers were unable to track the survival of any cubs who may have been with them. The researchers did note that females with cubs tended to make far fewer marathon swims, probably because the cubs would be vulnerable to hypothermia. "Polar bears are well adapted to swimming," Derocher said, "but of course, not all polar bears are created equal when it comes to the ability to swim." Derocher said the sea ice in the Beaufort Sea has always melted near the shore in the summer, but up until the 1980s, the edge of the ice was always visible from land. Polar bears typically migrate to follow the sea ice, which they use as their hunting grounds. But as the Arctic warms, the edge of the sea ice in summer has moved farther and farther north, sometimes hundreds of kilometres from shore, forcing the bears to swim farther and farther to find stable ice. Bears in the Hudson Bay region don't make the same long-distance swims because the ice in that region tends to melt completely in the summer. Because of that, they tend to spend their summers on land. Scientists had previous predicted that polar bears would be forced to swim more as climate change melts away the Arctic sea ice, but they said this was the first time they had enough data to actually show the link. Polar bear swims 9 days straight Polar bear diving record linked to melting sea ice CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Polar bear swims 9 days straight Polar bear diving record linked to melting sea ice Arctic sea ice at record winter low: monitoring agency External Links Summary of the paper in Ecography Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca