http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/climate-change-will-reduce-crops-sooner-than-expected-says-study-1.2575788
Climate change will reduce crops sooner than expected, says study | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Climate change will reduce crops sooner than expected, says study Social Sharing Technology & Science Climate change will reduce crops sooner than expected, says study Crop yields, especially in temperate climates such as North America and Europe, will be affected by climate change much earlier than predicted and with only a slight change in temperatures, according to a new international study. Social Sharing Change of only 2 C in temperature will alter yields CBC News · Posted: Mar 17, 2014 12:35 PM ET | Last Updated: March 17, 2014 'The impact of climate change on crops will vary both from year to year and from place to place, with the variability becoming greater as the weather becomes increasingly erratic,' says a new study. (Wally Skalij/Los Angeles Times/Associated Press) comments Crops yields, especially in temperate climates such as North America and Europe, will be affected by climate change much earlier than predicted and with only a slight change in temperatures, according to a new international study. The study, led by Andy Challinor at the University of Leeds in England, says global warming of only 2 C will be detrimental to crops in temperate and tropical climates starting around the 2030s. Climate change threatens Florida fruit crop Climate change may boost bananas over potatoes B.C. farmers noticing weather extremes “Our research shows that crop yields will be negatively affected by climate change much earlier than expected,” writes Challinor in the journal Nature Climate Change. "The impact of climate change on crops will vary both from year to year and from place to place – with the variability becoming greater as the weather becomes increasingly erratic.” Previous predictions had forecast that temperate climates could withstand a couple of degrees of warming without a noticeable effect on crops. This new study refutes that. “We’ve seen a shift in consensus,telling us that the impacts of climate change in temperate regions will happen sooner rather than later,” noted Challinor. According to the study, the greatest impact will be in the second half of the century, when decreases of more than 25 per cent will become increasingly common. Last decade warmest on record, says UN report Researchers from Australia, Colombia, the United States and the United Kingdom combined and compared results from 1,700 published reports of how climate change has affected yields of corn, wheat and rice. The researchers says their analyses comes from the largest data set to date on crop responses. In conclusion, the researchers said there is a need for greater innovations soon to safeguard crops for future generations. "Climate change means a less predictable harvest, with different countries winning and losing in different years. The overall picture remains negative," they wrote. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories B.C. farmers noticing altered seasons, weather extremes Climate change tied to bee pollination decline Climate change threatens Florida fruit crop Last decade warmest on record, says UN report Climate change may benefit Canada's farmers External Links Nature Climate Change: Crop yield under climate change and adaptation Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca