https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/urgent-ipcc-climate-change-warning-demands-action-bob-mcdonald-1.2827352
Urgent IPCC climate change warning demands action: Bob McDonald | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Urgent IPCC climate change warning demands action: Bob McDonald Social Sharing Technology & Science·Blog Urgent IPCC climate change warning demands action: Bob McDonald The latest report from the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is the loudest warning yet from the scientific community about the urgency to do something about global warming, but it’s barely being talked about, writes Bob McDonald. Social Sharing IPCC report is that doing nothing will cost much more than taking action now Bob McDonald · CBC News · Posted: Nov 07, 2014 9:31 AM ET | Last Updated: November 7, 2014 The latest report from the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is a synthesis of the last four reports - intended to act as a summary of where we are - leading up to the next big UN climate summit in Paris next year. The latest report from the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is the loudest shout to come from the scientific community about the urgency to do something about global warming. Yet less than a week later, it’s barely talked about. The 116-page report is a synthesis of the last four reports - intended to act as a summary of where we are - leading up to the next big UN climate summit in Paris next year. Normally, the wording of these reports has been somewhat cautionary, using phrases such as, “very likely,” or “strong evidence,” when referring to changes taking place in the Earth’s atmosphere since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution. Not this time. The message from the scientists is now clear. Fossil fuels must be gone by 2100 or we will pass a tipping point into a future calamity. While this message from scientists has been growing more urgent since the first report in 1990, the response from politicians has been slow. Global carbon emissions continue to rise, along with rising temperatures in the air and the oceans. The message from the scientists is now clear. Fossil fuels must be gone by 2100 or we will pass a tipping point into a future calamity. (Martin Meissner/Associated Press) The situation is similar to one any parent knows; the more you yell and scream at a misbehaving child, the less effective you are - especially over the long term, when the child becomes “mommy deaf.” Of course, the reason governments are slow to react to the warning about climate change is because of the perception that adapting our technology away from fossil fuels would break the economy. This is especially true in Canada, where the expanding fossil fuel industry is a cornerstone of our economy. While this report points to sensible ways to avoid that economic collapse, the politicians are still acting deaf. I saw a parallel situation from the past recently while watching my favourite classic science fiction movie, The Day The Earth Stood Still, released in 1951. In the movie, an alien spaceship lands in Washington DC. The pilot, a humanoid named Klatu, along with his tank-destroying robot Gort, arrive with a message for humanity from the other planets in the galaxy. It seems our neighbours in space were uncomfortable with our development of nuclear weapons (the movie made its debut not long after the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki). “Aggression will not be tolerated,” Klatu declares. He first asked to deliver this message to representatives from all the world’s governments, but was told that it would be impossible to gather them all together in one place. There was simply too much conflict in the world. So he went to a scientist, who happened to bear a strong resemblance to Einstein, and asked if he could gather colleagues from around the planet so the message could be delivered to the thinkers of the world. The answer he got was, “Yes, but people don’t listen to us scientists very much.” Several cities in China are on the list of places around the world that scientists predict will experience increasing extremes in weather as a result of global warming. (AP) Even in the 1950s, when many scientists, including Einstein, were warning that nuclear weapons were dangerous territory, the proliferation of those weapons still reached insane levels on both sides of the Atlantic. Thankfully, annihilation of humanity hasn’t happened, common sense has prevailed, and nuclear disarmament is now a reality. It hasn’t completely gone away, but the threat of nuclear war is far less than it was during the Cold War. So, what will appeal to our common sense and drive us to do something about climate change? Unless a UFO lands on Parliament Hill, the strongest warning is coming from nature; more droughts in some parts of the world, more extreme weather events in others, island countries consumed by rising sea levels, water shortages ... the list is growing. The most important part of the message from this IPCC report is that doing nothing will cost much more than taking action now. That’s an economic argument. Let common sense prevail. About the Author Bob McDonald Bob McDonald is the host of CBC Radio's award-winning weekly science program, Quirks & Quarks. He is also a science commentator for CBC News Network and CBC-TV's The National. He has received 12 honorary degrees and is an Officer of the Order of Canada. Quirks & Quarks Bob McDonald RSS feed Bob McDonald's recent columns Bob McDonald's archived columns, 2006 to June 2014 CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories UN climate change report offers stark warnings, hope UN chief calls for 'greater action' on climate change UN climate change panel warns emissions rising despite reduction efforts UN climate change guidelines to balance science and politics Climate change: 4 countries that are fighting the trend Scientists join list craze: 8 reasons to worry about global warming Earth still warming despite 'hiatus,' Canadian scientist says Global warming 'extremely likely' to be man-made, UN panel says Weather disasters will only get worse, scientists say Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca