http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/carbon-dioxide-global-levels-surpass-daunting-milestone-1.3064837
Carbon dioxide global levels surpass daunting milestone | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Carbon dioxide global levels surpass daunting milestone Social Sharing Technology & Science Carbon dioxide global levels surpass daunting milestone Global levels of carbon dioxide, the most prevalent heat-trapping gas, have passed a daunting milestone, U.S. federal scientists say. Social Sharing In March, entire globe reached CO2 levels not seen in about 2 million years The Associated Press · Posted: May 07, 2015 10:41 AM ET | Last Updated: May 8, 2015 In March, the global monthly average for carbon dioxide hit 400.83 parts per million, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. (Martin Meissner/The Associated Press) comments Global levels of carbon dioxide, the most prevalent heat-trapping gas, have passed a daunting milestone, U.S. federal scientists say. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says in March, the global monthly average for carbon dioxide hit 400.83 parts per million. That is the first month in modern records that the entire globe broke 400 ppm, reaching levels that haven't been seen in about two million years. How Western Canada glaciers will melt away Rising CO2 levels threaten human nutrition, study says "It's both disturbing and daunting," said NOAA chief greenhouse gas scientist Pieter Tans. "Daunting from the standpoint on how hard it is to slow this down." He said it is disturbing because it is happening at a pace so fast that it seems like an explosion compared to Earth's slow-moving natural changes. It's both disturbing and daunting. - Pieter Tans, NOAA chief greenhouse gas scientist Carbon dioxide isn't just higher, it is increasing at a record pace, 100 times faster than natural rises in the past, Tans said. Pushed by the burning of coal, oil and gas, global carbon dioxide is 18 per cent higher than it was in 1980, when NOAA first calculated a worldwide average. In 35 years, carbon dioxide levels rose 61 parts per million. In pre-human times, it took about 6,000 years for carbon dioxide to rise about 80 parts per million, Tans said. A NOAA employee prepares air sample canisters to ship to sampling sites around the world. Carbon dioxide levels are higher in the Northern Hemisphere, NOAA says, because power plants and vehicles there spew out carbon dioxide. (Will Von Dauster/NOAA/The Associated Press) Monthly levels fluctuate with the season, peaking in May and then decreasing as plants absorb carbon dioxide. But they are increasing on a year-to-year basis. Levels are also higher in the Northern Hemisphere because that's where carbon dioxide is being spewed by power plants and vehicles, Tans said. The first time levels passed the 400 ppm milestone was for just a few weeks in the Arctic in 2012. Last year the monthly Northern Hemisphere average measured in Hawaii exceeded 400 and now the global average has as well, said James Butler, head of NOAA's global monitoring division. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories How Canada's provinces are tackling greenhouse gas emissions How Western Canada glaciers will melt away UN Climate Summit: A 'game-changer' for global warming? Rising CO2 levels threaten human nutrition, study says Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca