https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/new-species-discovered-in-depths-of-atlantic-1.580076
New species discovered in depths of Atlantic | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news New species discovered in depths of Atlantic Social Sharing Technology & Science New species discovered in depths of Atlantic Landmark expedition deep in the Bermuda Triangle uncovers tiny flying snails, swimming worms and pulsing jellyfish that act as base of the ocean's food chain. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: May 04, 2006 3:44 PM ET | Last Updated: May 5, 2006 Explorations deep in the Atlantic Ocean have uncovered what scientists believe are new species of tiny wing-footedsnails, pulsing jellyfish and swimming worms in plankton. Thezooplankton species were discovered as researchers chartedplankton to see if climate change is harming the base of the food system in the sea, and if acidification in the ocean is affecting sea life, scientists reported Thursday. Plankton, the microscopic plant and animal organisms that drift in seas, oceans and lakes, helps to moderate climate by taking carbon to the bottom of thewater. Oceans absorb carbon dioxide, but the process increases the amount of acidity in the water, which could make it more difficult for creatures like crabs to growshells. Fish and marine mammals, such as whales, feed on plankton. More than two dozen marine scientists from 14 countries, including Canada, were on board for the 20-day survey of tropical waters between eastern United States and the mid-Atlantic ridge, including in the Bermuda Triangle, . They found "what appear to be several undescribed species that may well prove new to science," said the expedition's scientific leader, Peter Wiebe, senior scientist at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in the United States. "It was tremendously exciting, the sense of discovery," Wiebe told Canadian Press. "There was huge excitement because people had not seen animals this size from these depths." Samples were collected from the deepest waters of the ocean, down to 5,000 metres. They are also studied DNA from the zooplankton, the animal component of plankton, completing in three weeks what once took years in the lab. New species include: Six types of ostrocods,shrimp-like creatures that kick their tails and are preyed on by commercial fish species. Swimming worms. So-called flying snails called pteropods. The creatures propel through the water byflappingtwo wing-like lobeson their feet. Pulsing jellyfish. The animals are usually millimetres long, but some, such as jellyfish, can range up to the four centimetres in length. The U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration funded the study, which is part of the wider Census of Marine Life, a project to map the ocean life by 2010. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links More info, images and video of zooplankton, Census of Marine Life Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca