http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/climate-change-threatens-birds-pushes-them-north-1.2762167
Climate change threatens birds, pushes them north | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Climate change threatens birds, pushes them north Social Sharing Technology & Science Climate change threatens birds, pushes them north The laugh of the loon across southern Canadian lakes may soon be replaced by the calls of unfamiliar birds such as white-faced ibises and Mississippi kites, because of climate change. Social Sharing 314 North American bird species at risk due to climate change, report finds Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Sep 10, 2014 4:04 PM ET | Last Updated: September 10, 2014 Populations of the Canada warbler have already declined by more than half, Audubon noted in a news release. (Jeff Nadler) comments The laugh of the loon across southern Canadian lakes may soon be replaced by the calls of unfamiliar birds such as white-faced ibises and Mississippi kites, because of climate change. A new Birds and Climate Report from the New York-based conservation group National Audubon Society shows that climate change is pushing North American birds north — so far north that hundreds of species will lose more than half their current range by 2080. Read the full Birds and Climate Report "Climate change is displacing hundreds of bird species, many of which are headed deeper into the heart of Canada," said the group's chief scientist Gary Lagham in a statement tied to the release of the report this week. "This new information shows that we have to look to the larger and still-intact landscapes of Canada's North to ensure these birds have somewhere safe to go." Canada's degradation of pristine, intact forests leads world The report looked at three decades of data from the Audubon Christmas Bird Count and the North American Breeding Bird survey, collected across North America by ordinary birders at the same time every year as part of long-running citizen science project. On mobile and can't see the animation below? View it here. From that, the researchers figured out the geographic range of 588 species and therefore the climate needed for each to survive. The geographic area with a suitable climate for each species was defined as its "climatic range." The scientists then used climate models to figure out how the range of that climate will change by 2020, 2050 and 2080. The results showed that 314 species will lose more than 50 per cent of their climatic range by 2080. Among those, 126 will lose more than 50 per cent of their climatic range by 2050 if global warming continues at its current pace. What remains of their range will be largely pushed north. The laugh of the loon in the cottage country of southern Canada may soon be replaced by the calls of unfamiliar birds such as white-faced ibises and Mississippi kites, thanks to climate change. ( Jeff Wells/Boreal Songbird Initiative) "There'll be a lot of, basically, climate refugees in terms of birds," said Ted Cheskey, senior manager of bird conservation programs at Nature Canada, a non-profit group that collaborates with Audubon but was not directly involved in the study. Species previously unknown in Canada are already increasingly spotted in Canada, he said, including the black vulture in Ontario, the Mississippi kite in Manitoba, and the white-face ibis, which has started to nest in southern Saskatchewan. Non-native species appearing due to climate, feeders Other species, such as common loons, are moving farther north. "If we don't have habitat to accommodate them," Cheskey said, "then that probably will result in the demise of a lot of species." Some bird species are already showing steep declines — populations of the Canada warbler, rusty blackbird and olive-sided flycatcher have already declined by more than half, Audubon noted in a news release. A 2012 study found a 12 per cent drop in Canadian bird populations since 1970. Bird species declining in Canada, report says 1 in 8 bird species threatened with extinction Cheskey said in some cases, that's because as suitable climates shift north, suitable vegetation, food and other parts of the habitat may not shift with them, and some birds may be unable to adapt — birds adapted to deciduous forests or grasslands won't be able to live in a boreal forest dominated by conifers, for example. 'We haven't conserved enough good habitat' "That's really what the problem is. We haven't conserved enough good habitat," he said, adding that many suitable habitats have been overtaken by row crops and urban sprawl. Previous Next Hide caption Toggle Fullscreen1 of 0 To make matters worse, there is evidence that in some cases, climate change is causing insects to come out at a different time than the time birds need those insects to feed their young, Cheskey said. That puts insect-eating birds such as chimney swifts and purple martins at risk. Birds migrating at wrong time for warmer climate In some cases, birds are already adapted to the far north, such as the ivory gull, Cheskey added. They may have nowhere left to go. Vanishing ivory gull puzzles biologists Conservationists, including Audubon, the Boreal Songbird Initiative and Nature Canada agree that in order to give the birds a chance in the face of climate change pressures, Canada needs to protect large, intact, areas containing a variety of suitable bird habitats across the country. That will be a challenge. A report last week found that Canada leads the world in the degradation of large, pristine intact forests. Cheskey said his group has catalogued 600 "important bird areas" across the country, but only a third are currently protected. He says all levels of government must step up to create a nationwide network of protected areas, but ordinary citizens are ultimately responsible. "Ultimately it's Canadians that have to wise up to these sorts of things and force our governments to act. They act on our behalf," he said. "I hope that this is an issue in the next election. I hope that Canadians make this an issue." He added that humans also need to deal more effectively with climate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Canada's degradation of pristine, intact forests leads world Birds migrating at wrong time for warmer climate 1 in 8 bird species threatened with extinction Non-native birds appearing due to climate, feeders Bird species declining in Canada, report says Seabirds struggle in warmer North Birds moving farther north in response to climate change: study External Links Read the full Birds and Climate report Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca