http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/rare-tooth-of-human-ancestor-found-in-france-1.3170670
Rare tooth of human ancestor found in France | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Rare tooth of human ancestor found in France Social Sharing Technology & Science Rare tooth of human ancestor found in France Two archeology students volunteering at a dig site in France have uncovered a rare find — a 550,000-year-old tooth from an ancestor of modern humans. Social Sharing Adult's lower front tooth represents some of the oldest human remains ever found in Europe CBC News · Posted: Jul 28, 2015 10:17 AM ET | Last Updated: July 28, 2015 Archeology students Valentin Loescher (left) and Camille Jacquey found the tooth while volunteering at a dig at the cave. (Centre Europeen de Recherches Prehistoriques de Tautavel) Two archeology students volunteering at a dig site in France have uncovered a rare find — a 550,000-year-old tooth from an ancestor of modern humans. That's so old that very few hominin fossils exist in Europe from that period of time, according to the Tautavel Museum of Prehistory, which announced the discovery. That also makes the tooth the oldest hominin remains ever found in France by about 100,000 years. "Obviously, it's a shock — a beautiful encounter through time," anthropologist Amélie Vialet, who led the excavation, told the radio station France Bleu. The tooth was found on July 23 at the Caune de l'Arago cave near Tautavel in southwestern France. (Centre Europeen de Recherches Prehistoriques de Tautavel) Students Camille Jacquey and Valentin Loescher found the lower front tooth of an adult last Thursday at the Caune de l'Arago cave near Tautavel in southwestern France. There were no other hominin bones with it. Yves Coppen, a paleoanthropologist at the Collège de France in Paris, told the radio station France Info that human ancestors are estimated to have used the cave for about 700,000 years. Watch The Great Human Odyssey on The Nature of Things Actual human remains, including the famous 450,000 year-old Homo erectus skeleton known as the Tautavel Man, have largely been found in less ancient deposits than the ones where the tooth was found. The tooth belonged to a human ancestor who lived about 550,000 years ago - a period of time from which very few human remains have been found in Europe. (Centre Europeen de Recherches Prehistoriques de Tautavel) The tooth was found at a level in the cave corresponding to about 560,000 years ago, a cold, dry, windy period, the museum said. Other artifacts found in the cave from that time include the remains of the occupants' meals, including the bones of horses, reindeer, bison, rhinoceros and sheep and stone tools. The first modern humans arrived in Europe around 50,000 years ago. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Ancient human with close Neanderthal ancestor found in Romania Homo erectus engraved shell is about half-a-million years old Bones of pre-Neanderthal found in France The Nature of Things: The Great Human Odyssey Fossil jawbone pushes back human evolution at least 400,000 years External Links Press release from Tautavel Museum of Prehistory France Info: Yves Coppens : la dent de Tautavel 'dit des quantités de choses' France Bleu: L'Homme de Tautavel prend un coup de jeune Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca