https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/air-pollution-ozone-equator-1.3839820
Pollution near equator has biggest impact on global ozone levels, study finds | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Pollution near equator has biggest impact on global ozone levels, study finds Social Sharing Technology & Science Pollution near equator has biggest impact on global ozone levels, study finds When it comes to air pollution, a new study has found countries close to the equator do more damage than their northern neighbours, even when those in the tropics produce fewer emissions. Social Sharing Findings show effects of rapid industralization in South and Southeast Asia Sheena Goodyear · CBC News · Posted: Nov 07, 2016 2:29 PM ET | Last Updated: November 7, 2016 Students walk along a street as they are released from school to return home early due to the haze in Jambi, Indonesia, on Sept. 29, 2015. The rapid pace of industrialisation in countries close to the equator has caused global ozone emissions to skyrocket, research suggests. (Antara Foto/Wahdi Setiawan via Reuters) When it comes to air pollution, a new study has found countries close to the equator do more damage than their northern neighbours, even when those in the tropics produce fewer emissions. The study, published today in the journal Nature Geoscience, looks specifically at global levels of ozone — a greenhouse gas and toxic air pollutant — which have increased worldwide over the last three decades. "We wanted to ask the question how much of that change that's happened over the last three decades is due to the change in location of emissions versus the increase in total emissions globally," Jason West, who led the research at the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, told CBC News. "So we separated out those two factors and we found that change in location was by far the most important." Ozone pollution in N. America linked to Asia Ozone hole over Antarctica is starting to heal That means where we pollute matters more than how much we pollute, at least when it comes to ozone-producing chemicals from car exhaust fumes, power plants, biomass burning and more. So while China's emissions have increased more than India's and Southeast Asia's from 1980 to 2010, the last two have contributed more to the total global ozone increase, the researchers say. Girls play with a balloon under a flyover amidst the heavy smog in New Delhi, India, on Nov. 6, 2016. A new study suggests air pollution from countries like India has a greater impact on global ozone emissions to due to proximity to the equator. (Adnan Abidi/Reuters) These findings are significant as more ozone-forming emissions come from rapidly industrializing nations in South and Southeast Asia — places like India and Indonesia. Historically, most emissions have come from North America and Europe, says West. "But that's changed a lot over the past few decades as we have controlled our emissions and other parts of the world have industrialized," West said. "So that shifted emissions toward the equator." More sun, more ozone The sunny climate in these nations exacerbates the problem. That's because people don't actually emit ozone into the atmosphere. Rather, we emit a whole slew of other pollutants called nitrogen oxides, which form ozone when they come into contact with ultraviolet light. In the stratosphere, part of the upper atmosphere, ozone protects us against the sun's ultraviolet rays. But when ozone forms in the lower atmosphere, or troposphere, it becomes very dangerous to human health, causing respiratory problems and heart disease. Most people worldwide breathe polluted air, WHO warns Worst polluted cities likely don't monitor air quality well The intense, heat-producing sunlight near the equator speeds up the chemical reactions that form ozone. The higher temperatures also push the air up faster, transporting more pollutants higher into the troposphere, where they stick around longer and produce more ozone. A woman wearing a face mask shields her face from the sun as haze shrouds Singapore on Aug. 26, 2016. Air pollution, which is on the rise worldwide, contributes to respiratory problems. (Edgar Su/Reuters) None of this is groundbreaking — scientists have long known that emissions from tropical locations have a greater impact on ozone production — but the scale of it took the researchers by surprise. "We thought that the change in location would be important, but we didn't expect really that it would be the most important," West said. "When we first saw the results we thought it was surprising, and so of course we checked and double checked and found that that was the case." Nobody's off the hook Those findings, he said, should have a serious impact on policymaking going forward, especially as it pertains to international agreements to combat air pollution. "The world is changing and emissions are continuing to grow and they're continuing to shift toward the equator," West said. Early morning smog shrouds cooling towers of a power plant in Cape Town, South Africa, June 8, 2006. Global ozone levels are on the rise because of air pollutants from sources like power plants and biomass burning. (Mike Hutchings/Reuters) But nobody's off the hook. Global ozone levels affect everybody, West said, and when it comes to our health, local air quality matters most. "So we have every incentive to reduce our own emissions." About the Author Sheena Goodyear Sheena Goodyear is the digital producer for CBC Radio's As It Happens. Originally from Newfoundland and Labrador, her work has appeared on CBC News, Sun Media, the Globe & Mail, the Toronto Star, VICE News and more. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Ozone hole over Antarctica hits record size Environmental group wins legal challenge over U.S. ozone rule deadlines Clean air advocates applaud online portal for pollution data Opinion What progress are we making to protect our planet? Blog Ozone treaty a success - now how about climate change? Deal to curb methane on deck when Trudeau meets Obama in Washington Exclusive Fort McMurray wildfire cleanup crew says ozone machines made them sick Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca