https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/water-flowing-on-mars-nasa-images-suggest-1.983273
Water flowing on Mars, NASA images suggest | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Water flowing on Mars, NASA images suggest Social Sharing Technology & Science Water flowing on Mars, NASA images suggest Images taken by NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter have provided the best evidence to date that flowing, liquid water could exist on the planet. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Aug 04, 2011 10:39 PM ET | Last Updated: August 5, 2011 Dark features on the side of Martian mountains might be evidence of salty liquid water that flows in warmer months. (NASA/Reuters) Images taken by NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter have provided the best evidence to date that flowing, liquid water could exist on the planet. The images, reported in Thursday's edition of the journal Science, show dark markings on the sides of Martian mountains during the warmer months of the 700-day Martian year, which appear to fade in winter and return again in the spring. "The best explanation for these observations so far is the flow of briny water," said Alfred McEwen of the University of Arizona. McEwen, an author of the report, added that the darkness of the markings is still a mystery. "The flows are not dark because of being wet," he said. "They are dark for some other reason." A possible explanation, according to researchers, is that the briny water could reorder grains of sand in a way that seems to darken their appearance, but this wouldn't explain why they brighten in lower temperatures. NASA administrator Charles Bolden said the program, "keeps bringing us closer to determining whether the Red Planet could harbour life in some form.… and it reaffirms Mars as an important future destination for human exploration." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Seasonal flows on warm Martian slopes Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca