https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/melting-of-arctic-sea-ice-shatters-record-1.651291
Melting of Arctic sea ice shatters record | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Melting of Arctic sea ice shatters record Social Sharing Technology & Science Melting of Arctic sea ice shatters record Arctic sea ice has shrunk to its lowest levels since record keeping began nearly 30 years ago, reaching a minimum area last weekend that was over a million square kilometres less than the previous low, scientists said Thursday. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Sep 21, 2007 10:54 AM ET | Last Updated: September 21, 2007 Arctic sea ice has shrunk to its lowest levels since record keeping began nearly 30 years ago, reaching a minimum area last weekend that was over a million square kilometres less than the previous low, scientists said Thursday. After a summer in which satellites have been recording record lows in Arctic sea ice coverage, scientists from the University of Colorado at Boulder's National Snow and Ice Data Center said sea ice extent appears to have reached its minimum on Sept. 16, with the chances of it reaching a lower level unlikely in 2007. On that day, the Arctic sea ice extent stood at 4.13 million square kilometres. Sea ice extent is the total area of all Arctic regions where ice covers at least 15 per cent of the ocean surface. The record low breaks the previousmark from 2005 by about 1.2 million square kilometres — or slightly more than the size of the Northwest Territories. The new low is also about 2.6 million square kilometres — or roughly twice the size of all of Quebec — less than the long-term minimum average from 1979 to 2000. "The amount of ice loss this year absolutely stunned us, because it didn't just beat all previous records, it completely shattered them," said the University of Colorado at Boulder's senior scientist Mark Serreze. Arctic sea ice generally reaches its minimum extent in September and its maximum in March. Scientists are blaming the decline in Arctic sea ice on rising concentrations of greenhouse gases that have elevated temperatures from one to four degrees, as well as strong natural variability in Arctic sea ice, the researcher said. The polar regions are a concern to climate specialists studying global warming because those regions are expected to feel the impact of climate change sooner and to a greater extent than other areas. Sea ice in the Arctic helps keep those regions cool by reflecting sunlight that might otherwise be absorbed by darker ocean or land surfaces. Last week the European Space Agency reported that Arctic sea ice coverage had shrunk enough to open the most direct route through the Northwest Passage. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories IN DEPTH: Climate change Record sea ice loss opens Northwest Passage Arctic sea ice shrinks to lowest area on record Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca