https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/zombie-like-honeybees-infested-by-fly-parasite-1.1227111
Zombie-like honeybees infested by fly parasite | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Zombie-like honeybees infested by fly parasite Social Sharing Technology & Science Zombie-like honeybees infested by fly parasite A fly parasite that latches onto honeybees causing them to abandon their hives and die after a bout of disoriented zombie-like behaviour could be a potential threat to honeybee colonies across North America, according to researchers at San Francisco State University. Social Sharing Potential threat to colonies across North America CBC News · Posted: Jan 03, 2012 5:08 PM ET | Last Updated: January 4, 2012 Honeybees infested with a fly parasite abandon their hives and die after a bout of disoriented 'zombie'-like behavior, according to research from San Francisco State University. (Linda Davidson/The Washington Post/Associated Press) A fly parasite that latches onto honeybees causing them to abandon their hives and die after a bout of disoriented zombie-like behaviour could be a potential threat to honeybee colonies across North America, according to researchers at San Francisco State University. Studying the phenomenon may help scientists learn about colony collapse disorder (CCD), SF State biology professor John Hafernik wrote in the journal PLoS ONE published Tuesday. So far, the fly parasite called Apocephalus borealis has only been found in honeybee hives in California and South Dakota. The fly deposits its eggs into a bee's abdomen. After being parasitized by the fly, the bees abandon their hives to congregate near lights. "When we observed the bees for some time — the ones that were alive — we found that they walked around in circles, often with no sense of direction…. It really painted a picture of something like a zombie," said co-researcher Andrew Core. After about seven days, fly larvae push their way out from between the bee's head and thorax. Usually bees just sit in one place, sometimes curling up before they die. Bees that left the hives at night were more likely to have the parasite than those that foraged during the day. Genetic testing of parasitized hives showed that both bees and flies were often infected with a deformed wing virus and a fungus called Nosema ceranae. Pushed out by mates? Some researchers have pointed to the fungus and virus as the potential catalysts in colony collapse disorder. Hive abandonment is the primary characteristic of the disorder. Hafernik said the next step is to determine how the parasite is affecting bees' behavior; for example, whether the fly somehow interferes with the bees' "clock genes" that help them keep a normal day-night rhythm. It’s also not clear whether the bees leave the hive of their own accord or are pushed out by their mates. "A lot of touching and tasting goes on in a hive and it's certainly possible that their co-workers are finding them and can tell that there’s something wrong with them," Hafernik said. Researchers aren't sure how to prevent the parasitization because it's not clear where the flies are latching onto the bees. It's likely that it's happening when the bees are foraging because flies aren’t hanging around the beehives, said Hafernik. Genetic analysis of the parasites confirmed they are the same flies that have been affecting bumblebees. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca