https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/british-billionaire-unveils-spaceship-design-1.614741
British billionaire unveils spaceship design | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news British billionaire unveils spaceship design Social Sharing Technology & Science British billionaire unveils spaceship design British billionaire Richard Branson on Thursday unveiled a prototype design of the first spacecraft to be used by his Virgin Galactic space tourism service. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Sep 28, 2006 7:14 PM ET | Last Updated: September 29, 2006 British billionaire Richard Branson on Thursday unveiled a prototype design of the first spacecraft to be used by his Virgin Galactic space tourism service. "We hope to enable millions of people to go into space in an affordable manner," the founder of the Virgin Group said in New York after he took the wraps off of a full-scale model of SpaceShip Two at Wired magazine's NextFest conference. The ship, designed to carry six passengers and two pilots, will ascend to an altitude of about 60,000 feet on a carrier named White Knight Two, then detach and rocket into space at nearly four times the speed of sound. Would-be space tourists can buy a $200,000 US ticket for a 2Â½ hour sub-orbital flight during which they will experience zero-gravity, Virgin Galactic promises. Despite the price — which is much cheaper than the $20 million reportedly paid by space tourist Anousheh Ansari for her recent flight on a Russian rocket — the company already has 200 passengers registered, with 65,000 more people signed up as potential customers. Future plans The vehicle is designed by Burt Rutan's Scaled Composites LLC and based on the company's SpaceShip One design. In 2004, SpaceShip One captured the $10-million US Ansari X-Prize for being the first private manned ship to reach space twice in a span of two weeks. Rutan and Branson inked a deal last year to form The Spaceship Co., which will manufacture and sell personal spacecraft. Virgin Galactic plans to launch about one flight a week starting in 2009, first from Mojave, Calif., and later from the private Spaceport America in New Mexico. The tourism service could launch a new wave of high-speed global travel, Branson said. "We expect people to go from London to Australia in half an hour, or from Los Angeles to London in half an hour. We believe that in the next 10 years, that should be possible," Branson said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories First female space tourist lifts off in Russia External Links Virgin Galactic Virgin Galactic Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca