https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/nicole-mortillaro-1.3842220
Nicole Mortillaro - Senior Reporter, Science | CBC Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Nicole Mortillaro - Senior Reporter, Science Social Sharing Nicole Mortillaro Senior Reporter, Science Nicole has an avid interest in all things science. As an amateur astronomer, Nicole can be found looking up at the night sky appreciating the marvels of our universe. She is the editor of the Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada and the author of several books. Latest from Nicole Mortillaro 'I've never been so stressed': Health-care workers in COVID-19 battle face PTSD, mental health issues Doctors and other health-care workers from around the world are treating lots of patients and working long hours during the COVID-19 pandemic. And there's concern that it could lead to some serious mental health concerns, including PTSD. Health |March 25 Air pollution drops as countries shut down amid spread of COVID-19 Countries around the world are restricting gatherings, closing public venues and encouraging people to work from home in the battle against COVID-19. Italy is under lockdown. All of these actions are having quantifiable consequences, particularly in our environment, scientists believe. Technology & Science |March 20 How to talk to children and address their coronavirus concerns All of this coronavirus information can be overwhelming and frightening for children, and it's up to parents to provide accurate information in an age-appropriate manner, one expert says. Health |March 16 Weather forecast for this exoplanet: iron rain If you plan on visiting WASP-76b, a planet orbiting another star roughly 600 light-years away, you’d better pack a hardy umbrella. Technology & Science |March 12 'That's super exciting': New study finds this 'mini-Neptune' exoplanet could be potentially habitable New research suggests K2-18b, a "mini-Neptune" that lies roughly 125 light-years from Earth, could be potentially habitable. Technology & Science |March 4 Mass grey whale strandings may be linked to solar storms Each year, grey whales travel more than 16,000 kilometres along the Pacific Coast, from Mexico to Alaska and back. But every so often, many of them become stranded. Now a new study suggests these strandings could be linked to solar storms. Technology & Science |March 2 Hopes for supernova are dimming as Betelgeuse brightens It appears that the hopes of astronomers who wanted a nearby star to explode have been dashed. After weeks of unprecedented dimming, Betelgeuse — a star in the constellation Orion — is beginning to brighten again. Technology & Science |February 27 'We've seen some weird stuff': Scientists release 1st findings from Mars InSight mission Thanks to several instruments on the Mars InSight lander, scientists are discovering more about our planetary neighbour that will help them better understand what future explorers might expect living on the red planet. Technology & Science |February 24 Astronomers look to preserve the night sky as thousands of satellites set to launch The potential launch of tens of thousands of satellites — called constellations — is a serious threat to astronomy, according to the International Astronomical Union (IAU). Now, it's trying to find solutions. Technology & Science |February 20 Astronomers look to preserve the night sky as thousands of satellites set to launch The potential launch of tens of thousands of satellites — called constellations — is a serious threat to astronomy, according to the International Astronomical Union (IAU). Now, it's trying to find solutions. Technology & Science |February 19 New photo of a star that people hope will explode shows it fading and changing shape Betelgeuse just keeps on getting weirder. After an unprecedented dimming, followed by the detection of a gravitational wave, the star seems to have changed shape. Technology & Science |February 15 Astronomers want you to help them count the stars this Valentine's Day In an effort to better understand the loss of the night sky due to light pollution, astronomers are calling on star-lovers and romantics to enjoy a night under the stars — and give them a helping hand. Technology & Science |February 14 'Tangled ball of issues': Why geoengineering our climate raises serious ethical, scientific challenges As global carbon emissions continue to rise despite warnings from the scientific community, there's been increased interest in a controversial method to potentially mitigate the rise in Earth's temperature. Technology & Science |February 13 'This is uncomfortably close': 2 defunct satellites orbiting Earth at risk of colliding Two defunct satellites will either pass dangerously close to one another or collide while orbiting Earth, according to a private satellite-tracking company. Technology & Science |February 3 Doomsday Clock moves ahead to 100 seconds to midnight In its annual announcement, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists moved the Doomsday Clock ahead to 100 seconds to midnight. "We now face a true emergency — an absolutely unacceptable state of world affairs that has eliminated any margin for error or further delay," says group's leader. Technology & Science |January 24 Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca