https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/nasa-probe-to-search-moon-for-water-1.573637
NASA probe to search moon for water | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news NASA probe to search moon for water Social Sharing Technology & Science NASA probe to search moon for water Telescopes on Earth will be trained to watch as a probe collides into the moon in 2009, NASA says. Space agency officials want to search for water, resources before sending people back to the moon. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Apr 11, 2006 12:55 PM ET | Last Updated: April 11, 2006 NASA is planning to crash a space probe on the surface of the moon in 2009 as part of larger mission to search for water. The explosion, which will be seen from Earth with a telescope, will open a hole about five metres deep. The probe's mothership will then look for traces of ice or vapour in the plume of debris released from the collision. The mission is similar to NASA's Deep Impact expedition last July, which blasted into a comet. The moon collision and orbiter mission will be the first of several lunar robotic projects before NASA sends astronauts to the moon. That manned expedition is set for 2018. The orbiter is scheduled to launch in October 2008 and will circle the moon for at least a year. It will map the surface, searching for water and potential future landing sites to send astronauts. Scientists will also use robots to search other resources such as hydrogen and metals that human explorers could use. The entire mission will cost more than $600 million US. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Space exploration, NASA Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca