https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/global-warming-linked-to-several-extreme-weather-events-1.2781420
Global warming linked to several extreme weather events | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Global warming linked to several extreme weather events Social Sharing Technology & Science Global warming linked to several extreme weather events Scientists looking at 16 cases of wild weather around the world last year see the fingerprints of man-made global warming on more than half of them. Social Sharing Better computer models help determine odds of events increasing because of climate change The Associated Press · Posted: Sep 29, 2014 1:45 PM ET | Last Updated: September 30, 2014 The effects of a drought can be seen at a water reservoir in this photo taken in February 2013 in Kiwitahi, New Zealand. (Christine Cornege/New Zealand Herald/Associated Press) comments Scientists looking at 16 cases of wild weather around the world last year see the fingerprints of man-made global warming on more than half of them. Researchers found that climate change increased the odds of nine extremes: Heat waves in Australia, Europe, China, Japan and Korea, intense rain in parts of the United States and India, and severe droughts in California and New Zealand. The California drought, though, comes with an asterisk. Is the weather really getting wilder? Climate change 'skeptic' concludes world is warming Earth still warming despite 'hiatus,' Canadian scientist says Climate change impacts 'might already be considered dangerous' How to raise a baby with a zero carbon footprint Scientists couldn't find a global warming link to an early South Dakota blizzard, freak storms in Germany and the Pyrenees, heavy rain in Colorado, southern and central Europe, and a cold British spring. The editors of the 108-page compilation of studies wrote that people often connect extreme events to climate change, sometimes wrongly, so scientific analysis like this "can help inform the public's understanding of our changing environment." (Peter Andrews/Reuters) Organized by the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, researchers on Monday published 22 studies on 2013 climate extremes in a special edition of the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society. "It's not ever a single factor that is responsible for the extremes that we see," said NOAA National Climatic Data Center director Tom Karl said. "Natural variability is always part of any extreme climate event." For years, scientists said they could not attribute single weather events — like a drought, heat wave or storm — to man-made global warming. But with better computer models and new research, in some cases scientists can see how the odds of events increase — or not — because of climate change. Other researchers question the usefulness and accuracy of focusing on single extreme events. The editors of the 108-page compilation of studies wrote that people and animals tend to be more affected by extreme weather than changes in averages, so they pay attention to it. The public often connects extreme events to climate change, sometimes wrongly, so scientific analysis like this "can help inform the public's understanding of our changing environment." UN Climate Summit: 4 things to know about the talks The Current: Stephen Harper skips UN Climate Summit, environmentalists cry foul Canada spotlights vehicle emissions standards at UN climate talks World Bank leads carbon pricing push before UN Climate Summit Global CO2 emissions break record ahead of UN Climate Summit The report seeks to find how much and how man-made warming has influenced the weather, said NOAA research meteorologist Martin Hoerling, an editor of the report. The influence on Australia's hottest year in more than a century is glaring, the report's editors said. "It's almost impossible" to explain Australia's hot 2013 without climate change, said Peter Stott of Britain's meteorology office, another report editor. The most complicated issue is the California drought, the only extreme that has continued into this year. Three teams studied that state's record drought in different ways. Two teams couldn't find a link to global warming and water and air temperatures, but the third from Stanford University looked at high pressure patterns in the air and found a connection. California's resilient high pressure ridge A high pressure system parks over the northern Pacific during California's winters, which is normally when it gets rain. Higher atmospheric pressure usually means fewer storms and rain. The pressure was so strong last year that study lead author Daniel Swain called it "a ridiculously resilient ridge." The Stanford team ran computer models with and without man-made warming from the burning of coal, oil and gas. The warming from greenhouse gases showed that the rain-blocking ridge of high pressure was more than three times more likely with man-made factors than without, Swain said. "The report as a whole is a reflection that more and more future climate extremes around the globe will be attributed to human-caused climate change," said University of Arizona climate scientist Jonathan Overpeck, who wasn't part of the research. In two extreme events — the British cold spring and the September northern Colorado rains — the report found global warming actually decreased their likelihoods and yet they happened. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Weather Gone Wild on The Nature of Things Climate change impacts 'might already be considered dangerous' Atlantic Ocean slows global warming, but scientists believe hiatus will end around 2030 How to raise a baby with a zero carbon footprint Leonardo DiCaprio urges UN to solve climate crisis UN Climate Summit: 4 things to know about the talks The Current: Stephen Harper skips UN Climate Summit, environmentalists cry foul Global CO2 emissions break record ahead of UN Climate Summit Droughts show global warming is 'scientific fact' External Links The report: Explaining extreme events of 2013 (pdf) UN Climate Summit Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca