https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/astronauts-take-time-on-extra-long-spacewalk-1.812400
Astronauts take time on extra-long spacewalk | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Astronauts take time on extra-long spacewalk Social Sharing Technology & Science Astronauts take time on extra-long spacewalk Astronauts outfitted the international space station with fresh batteries in an extra-long spacewalk Friday, moving slowly to avoid a repeat of the suit trouble that cut short the previous outing. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Jul 24, 2009 6:02 PM ET | Last Updated: July 24, 2009 Astronauts outfitted the international space station with fresh batteries in an extra-long spacewalk Friday, moving slowly to avoid a repeat of the suit trouble that cut short the previous outing. At Mission Control's request, Christopher Cassidy and Thomas Marshburn took their time heading out to the far end of the space station, where a series of critical battery changes awaited them. It was difficult dealing with all the stiff bolts, and the men paced themselves accordingly as they pulled out nine-year-old batteries and plugged in new ones. By midafternoon, five hours into their spacewalk, the two had installed three fresh batteries. One more remained. The last time Cassidy went out, on Wednesday, he was so gung-ho and moved so fast that the air-cleansing canister in his suit could not keep up. That resulted in rising carbon dioxide levels that forced an early end to the spacewalk. "He's a navy SEAL, he's in great shape, and so we really needed to tell him, 'Hey, we know you can do this really well and really fast ... just slow down a little and take your time,"' explained flight director Holly Ridings. The spacewalkers took the advice to heart. But despite Cassidy's effort to stay relaxed, his metabolic rate was a little high at one point and Mission Control gave some of the early battery tasks to Marshburn. That gave Cassidy, a 39-year-old navy commander, a bit of a break. "I'm just going to sit here," Cassidy said. He noted that he wanted the lithium hydrogen canister in his suit — for removing his exhaled carbon dioxide — to operate at its maximum efficiency. Two of the four new batteries assigned to Cassidy and Marshburn should have been installed Wednesday. Only two fresh batteries were hooked up during that shortened spacewalk. 7½-hour spacewalk The extra work pushed the planned length of Friday's spacewalk to seven-and-a-half hours, an hour longer than usual. It was the fourth spacewalk over the past week for shuttle Endeavour's visiting crew. The batteries — roughly one-metre-square bundles weighing about 168 kilograms each — are designed to store power collected by the solar wings on the far left end of the space station. Each one costs $3.6 million US. The old batteries will be returned to Earth aboard Endeavour at the end of next week. Cassidy — an explosives and combat expert who went into Afghanistan two weeks after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks — said in a series of TV interviews Thursday that he experienced no symptoms of carbon dioxide buildup during Wednesday's spacewalk and was never worried. One more spacewalk is planned, on Monday. Back at the launch site, NASA conducted more testing on the fuel tank that will be used for Discovery's launch at the end of August. Shuttle managers want to be absolutely certain that the foam insulation on the central area of the tank was attached properly. During Endeavour's liftoff on July 15, an unusually large amount of foam broke off and a few pieces struck the shuttle, causing minor damage. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Cirque du Soleil founder preps for space trip Spacewalking astronauts give solar arrays a boost INTERACTIVE: Map of the International Space Station Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca