http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/el-nino-this-year-could-be-a-record-breaker-1.3190912
El Nino this year could be a record-breaker | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news El Nino this year could be a record-breaker Social Sharing Technology & Science El Nino this year could be a record-breaker The current El Nino, nicknamed Bruce Lee, is already the second strongest on record for this time of year and could be one of the most potent weather-changers of the past 65 years, meteorologists say. Social Sharing Nicknamed Bruce Lee, weather pattern could turn out to be strongest on record, meteorologists say The Associated Press · Posted: Aug 14, 2015 10:42 AM ET | Last Updated: August 14, 2015 Argentine policemen patrol a flooded street on a boat in Lujan, Argentina, August 12, 2015. Torrential rains linked to El Nino last weekend caused rivers to rise and flood cities in northern Buenos Aires province. (Marcos Brindicci/Reuters) comments The current El Nino, nicknamed Bruce Lee after the late action hero, is already the second strongest on record for this time of year and could be one of the most potent weather changers of the past 65 years, meteorologists say. While its effect on Canada will be minimal, the weather system is already causing deadly droughts and floods across the globe. El Nino weather system appears for 1st time since 2010 El Nino drought spurs new cargo limits in Panama Canal An El Nino is a temporary change of climate that happens every few years, when winds shift in the Pacific Ocean along the equator, warming the water more than usual. These El Nino events trigger changing weather patterns globally. Satellite measurements show that this El Nino could eventually rival the king-sized one in 1997-98 — the strongest since record-keeping began in 1950 — when it reaches its peak in the months to come. "We're predicting that this El Nino could be among the strongest El Ninos on record, dating back to 1950," Mike Halpert, deputy director of the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration's Climate Prediction Center, said. An NOAA blog nicknamed it Bruce Lee because of its strength, while NASA oceanographer Bill Patzert compared it to Godzilla for the mudslides and destruction it can cause. NASA oceanographer Bill Patzert compares this year's strong El Nino weather system to Godzilla. It's already the second strongest El Nino on record for this time of year and could be one of the most potent weather changers of the past 65 years. (Jayne Kamin-Oncea/Associated Press) Milder weather for Canada El Nino will likely bring warmer-than-usual weather to Western Canada, Gerhard Reuter, a professor of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Alberta, told CBC News. "El Nino is typically is associated with warmer temperatures over Western Canada," Reuter said. "This fall and winter, we'll have milder weather over B.C., Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba." In May, experts blamed El Nino for speeding up nature's clock and forcing firefighters to deploy weeks ahead of normal to battle wildfires across rural Western Canada. B.C. may get dryer Sam Nakatsu posted this picture of the Rock Creek fire approaching his home near Westbridge. (Sam Nakatsu/Twitter) Drought-struck areas better not count on El Nino rescuing them like in a Bruce Lee action movie, experts said. CBC meteorologist Johanna Wagstaffe said dry conditions could worsen in B.C. "Even though no two El Ninos are same, the fact that we are already dealing with a warmer than normal area of warm ocean temperatures off the coast of B.C. will likely add to the outlooks of a warm and dry next few seasons for the western half of the country," she said. "So, unfortunately, there is higher confidence that B.C. will have to deal with drier than normal conditions for a few months to come. And that will continue to have impacts on the already dire fire and drought situation." Dry weather in B.C. has prompted widespread water restrictions and aided in the spread of an aggressive wildfire that forced hundreds of people from their homes Thursday afternoon near Rock Creek. California droughts Halpert said California residents shouldn't hang their hopes on El Nino, either "A big El Nino guarantees nothing," Halpert said. "At this point there's no cause for rejoicing that El Nino is here to save the day." California needs 1½ times the amount of normal rainfall to pull itself from drought, he said. A firefighter snaps a photograph as the so-called Jerusalem Fire burns behind him in Lake County, Calif. earlier this week. The wildfire ran rampant through drought-parched vegetation in northern California. (Robert Galbraith/Reuters) Chances are 50-50 of the El Nino delivering a wet winter, said California's state climatologist Michael Anderson. Since 1958, there have been seven El Nino systems — three wet, three dry and one average. Ryan Jacobsen, executive director of the Fresno County Farm Bureau, said farmers aren't fooled by a common misconception that El Nino always translates into a wet winter. "The one constant with Mother Nature is that she's always changing," Jacobsen said. Central America food emergency Nearly one million people in Guatemala are struggling to feed themselves as poor rainfall has led to drought and shrunken harvests, worsening hunger among the poor, the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) said. Linked to the El Nino weather phenomenon, this year's drought has hit subsistence farmers living in Central America's "dry corridor" that runs through parts of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras and Nicaragua, hard. A woman shows a dry radish plant at her drought-affected plot, in the southern village of San Francisco de Coray, in the department of Valle, Honduras, August 13, 2015. Linked to the El Nino weather phenomenon, this year's drought has hit subsistence farmers living in Central America's "dry corridor" that runs through parts of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras and Nicaragua. (Jorge Cabrera/Reuters) "In Guatemala, 170,000 families, approximately 900,000 people, have no food reserves left. This is the third consecutive year they have been hit by drought," said Diego Recalde, head of FAO in Guatemala. "This is a slow emergency that's not visible but we can already notice chronic child malnutrition is increasing," he said said. Families in mostly poor, indigenous communities in rural areas are now eating only one or two meals a day, Recalde said. Flooding in Chile, Argentina Police officers hold a pelican wounded in one wing caused by a heavy storm along the coastline in Vina del Mar, Chile, on Aug. 8, 2015. Large parts of the country have seen torrential rains, which are linked to El Nino. (Rodrigo Garrido/Reuters) While some areas struggle with drought, El Nino is bringing rain and floods to Chile and Argentina, Reuter said. Last week, rains caused large waves to pummel fishing boats, restaurants and homes along Chile's coast. More than 1,000 people were forced from their homes. The stormy weather in Chile has been blamed for at least six deaths. Three people died in landslide in the northern port town of Tocopilla on Sunday. Three other people died Saturday: A man drowned at sea near Valparaiso, another was crushed by a tree in O'Higgins region and a third person died when his roof collapsed in the northern city of La Serena. In Argentina last week, swollen rivers forced 6,000 people from their homes. With files from Sheena Goodyear and Reuters CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories El Nino weather system appears for 1st time since 2010 El Nino blamed for early wildfires across Western Canada El Nino drought spurs new cargo limits in Panama Canal Tornadoes: El Nino may give Canada's twister season a boost Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca