https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/toronto-water-has-drug-resistant-bacteria-1.785279
Toronto water has drug-resistant bacteria | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Toronto water has drug-resistant bacteria Social Sharing Technology & Science Toronto water has drug-resistant bacteria Bacteria resistant to some antibiotics have been found in Toronto tap water, a University of Michigan scientist says. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Oct 26, 2009 5:04 AM ET | Last Updated: October 26, 2009 Bacteria resistant to some antibiotics have been found in Toronto tap water, a University of Michigan scientist says. The water remains safe to drink, he said, but the finding raises the possibility that disease-causing bacteria will pick up the resistance genes. The yellow dots are colonies of bacteria from tap water, bacteria that should have been killed off by antibiotics. (CBC) In the United States, researchers have found bacteria in some municipal water supplies that have evolved to become resistant to some antibiotics. At his lab in Ann Arbor, Mich., microbiologist Prof. Chuanwu Xi showed a stack of petri dishes, some filled with yellow dots of bacteria that should have been killed off by antibiotics. The source of the bacteria was drinking water from several communities in Ohio and Michigan. "In tap water in Toronto, there's antibiotic-resistant bacteria," Xi said, after testing water samples provided by CBC News. The researchers don't know what kinds of bacteria they've found, just that they can't be killed by antibiotics. But most bacteria in the environment are not the kinds that cause human disease, so the water is safe to drink, the researchers said. Drug-resistant infections The real concern is the genetic pollution created by antibiotic-resistant genes circulating in the environment and the risk that human pathogens will pick up those resistant genes, said Gerry Wright, a researcher at McMaster University in Hamilton. Bacteria have a remarkable ability to copy the drug-resistance genes of their neighbours, Wright said. "We're getting to the point — without being alarmist — that for some infections we're beyond the point of having anything to treat the infection with," Wright said. At this point, most superbugs infect patients who are very sick in hospital. But the concern is that doctors are starting to see routine infections that are increasingly drug resistant. At Grand River Hospital in Kitchener, Ont., infectious disease specialist Dr. William Ciccotelli has watched resistance develop in a bacterial species known as Acinetobacter baumanni. The common, formerly harmless water bacteria suddenly emerged as a superbug, resistant to all but the most toxic antibiotic. "I've personally had experiences where by the start and end of somebody's illness, the organism becomes increasingly more resistant," Ciccotelli said. "So the last antibiotic I used to treat it, the next time I have to treat it, it's resistant to that." Researchers don't know the source of this resistant strain. To learn more about resistance in general, public health experts are studying the use of antibiotics in agriculture and medicine. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Battling germs that keep getting stronger LIVE DISCUSSION: Super bugs External Links Chuanwu Xi's research, University of Michigan School of Public Health Chuanwu Xi's research, University of Michigan School of Public Health Chuanwu Xi's research, University of Michigan School of Public Health Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca