https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/spacewalking-astronauts-give-solar-arrays-a-boost-1.815576
Spacewalking astronauts give solar arrays a boost | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Spacewalking astronauts give solar arrays a boost Social Sharing Technology & Science Spacewalking astronauts give solar arrays a boost Two astronauts installed new batteries outside the International Space Station Wednesday, with help from Canadian mission specialist Julie Payette. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 22, 2009 11:16 AM ET | Last Updated: July 22, 2009 Two astronauts installed new batteries outside the International Space Station Wednesday, with help from Canadian mission specialist Julie Payette. Dave Wolf and Chris Cassidy began the third spacewalk of the STS-127 mission at 10:32 a.m. ET — half an hour early, NASA said. The astronauts' main task was to replace four of the six batteries on the station's oldest solar array. As of 3 p.m. ET, two of the new batteries had been installed and were working well, NASA reported on Twitter. Payette's job had been to work with Endeavour shuttle pilot Doug Hurley to move the container of new batteries to the worksite before the start of the spacewalk using the space station's Canadian-made robotic arm. Prior to moving the batteries, Wolf and Cassidy helped prepare Japanese experiments sitting on a platform next to the Kibo laboratory for transfer to the section of the lab referred to by NASA as its "porch." That new section, brought up with the Endeavour last week and attached to the space station on Saturday, is designed to allow experiments to be exposed directly to the cold, radiation and other extreme conditions in space. The experiments are to be moved by the Japanese Kibo robotic arm Thursday. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Astronauts dock experiments at space station 'porch' Successful spacewalk on moon-landing anniversary Endeavour astronauts finish 1st spacewalk Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca