http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/dinosaur-blood-cells-proteins-found-in-crummy-alberta-fossils-1.3106247
Dinosaur blood cells, proteins found in crummy Alberta fossils | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Dinosaur blood cells, proteins found in crummy Alberta fossils Social Sharing Technology & Science Dinosaur blood cells, proteins found in crummy Alberta fossils Scientists have made a surprising find inside badly preserved fragments of dinosaur fossils from Alberta. Social Sharing Soft tissues usually only found in very well-preserved fossils Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Jun 09, 2015 1:24 PM ET | Last Updated: June 10, 2015 Scanning electron microscope images from the rib of an unidentified dinosaur from Dinosaur Park Formation in Alberta show mineralized fibres, thought to be collagen. (Sergio Bertazzo/Imperial College London) comments Scientists have found a surprise inside badly preserved fragments of dinosaur fossils from Alberta – tiny features that look like blood cells and a stringy protein called collagen. That's surprising because fossils usually preserve only harder materials like bone, and typically only the best-preserved fossils contain softer tissues. Those softer tissues can provide valuable information that bones alone can't. "What is particularly exciting about our study is that we have discovered structures reminiscent of blood cells and collagen fibres in scrappy, poorly preserved fossils," said Susannah Maidment, a co-author of the study, in a statement. "This suggests that this sort of soft tissue preservation might be widespread in fossils." Coming up: Susannah Maidment talks to Quirks & Quarks June 13 at noon on CBC Radio One The researchers, led by Sergio Bertazzo, a junior research fellow in materials at Imperial College London, examined eight chunks of fossils in the collection of the Natural History Museum in London. (Laurent Mekul) Maidment, a junior research fellow in earth sciences and engineering at Imperial College London, suggested that soft tissues might help scientists understand how different dinosaurs were related and how they evolved to become warm-blooded, as many scientists think a lot of dinosaurs were. The researchers, led by Sergio Bertazzo, a junior research fellow in materials at Imperial College London, examined eight chunks of fossils in the collection of the Natural History Museum in London. Six of them were from Dinosaur Park Formation in Alberta, including the claw of a theropod (a carnivore related to T. rex), a chasmosaurus rib, hadrosaur toe and ankle bones, and the toe bone of a horned dinosaur, and the rib of a dinosaur that couldn't be identified. Two other hadrosaur fragments were from other rock formations that were also from the late Cretaceous, around 75 million years ago. 'Surprisingly similar' to emu blood Using an electron microscope, they found red blood cell-like structures in the therapod claw and the horned dinosaur toe. When they used an instrument called a mass spectrometer to look at the chemical composition, they saw a profile "surprisingly similar" to that of blood cells from an emu, a large bird, they reported in the journal Nature Communications. Birds are thought to be closely related to dinosaurs. Summary of the paper in Nature Communications In four of the other fossils, the researchers found fibre-like structures. The rib from the dinosaur that couldn't be identified even showed bands in the fibres that are seen in fresh collagen. The researchers also detected amino acids – the building blocks of proteins – that are normally found in collagen. Red blood cell-like structures were found inside this claw from a meat-eating dinosaur called a theropod from Dinosaur Park Formation in Alberta. (Laurent Mekul) The researchers cautioned that more research is needed to confirm that what they saw is actually what they think it is. They also plan to examine more fossils to look for similar structures. Robert Reisz, a University of Toronto paleontologist who was not involved in the new paper, said in an email that the researchers' findings look reasonable. "There is no reason to think that this kind of preservation is not real," said Reisz, who was part of a team that found preserved soft tissues in much older dinosaurs in 2013. Reisz added that clear evidence of proteins have previously been found in dinosaur and reptile fossils from the Cretaceous. A 2013 study suggested that proteins in dinosaur fossils are preserved by iron released from blood cells after a dinosaur dies. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Alberta dinosaur expert proposes marriage in scientific paper Hellboy dinosaur species unveiled by Royal Tyrrell Museum Rare dinosaur fossil bed reveals growth inside eggs External Links Summary of the paper in Nature Communications Paper on how cells and proteins might be preserved for millions of years News release from Imperial College London Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca