https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/t-rex-tooth-found-lodged-in-escaped-prey-1.1401448
T. rex tooth found lodged in escaped prey | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news T. rex tooth found lodged in escaped prey Social Sharing Technology & Science T. rex tooth found lodged in escaped prey The fearsome bite of a hungry Tyrannosaurus rex left behind new evidence that the famous beast hunted for food and wasn't just a scavenger. Social Sharing Duckbill dinosaur's tailbones regrew around it after close call The Associated Press · Posted: Jul 16, 2013 9:20 AM ET | Last Updated: July 17, 2013 Researchers Robert A. DePalma II (left) and David A. Burnham found a part of a T. rex tooth wedged between two tailbones of a duckbill dinosaur unearthed in northwestern South Dakota. (Courtesy David A. Burnham) The fearsome bite of a hungry Tyrannosaurus rex left behind new evidence that the famous beast hunted for food and wasn't just a scavenger. Researchers found a part of a T. rex tooth wedged between two tailbones of a duckbill dinosaur unearthed in northwestern South Dakota. The tooth was partially enclosed by regrown bone, indicating the smaller duckbill had escaped from the T. rex and lived for months or years afterward. Since the duckbill was alive and not just a carcass when it met the T. rex, the fossil provides definitive evidence that T. rex hunted live animals, researchers say in Monday's issue of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. The fossil, from around 67 million years ago, indicates the T. rex bit the duckbill from behind and "intended to take it for a meal," said David Burnham of the University of Kansas, an author of the report. It's not clear whether there was a chase involved, he said. The latest find is consistent with other evidence that T. rex hunted in addition to scavenging carcasses, scientists say. (David Monniaux/Wikimedia Commons) Experts who didn't participate in the study said there was already ample evidence that T. rex went after live animals as well as scavenging carcasses. It brought a bone-shattering bite and teeth up to a foot long to each task. The new fossil is the first to include a T. rex tooth embedded in the bones of its prey, giving "extremely strong physical evidence that the attacker was a tyrannosaur," said Thomas Holtz, Jr., of the University of Maryland. "It's one other bit of evidence (for hunting) fully consistent with the other data already established from lots and lots of lines of evidence," Holtz said. You might think a T. rex would take down anything in sight, but Jack Horner of Montana State University said it apparently preyed on the weak, the sick and the young instead. It makes sense that T. rex also scavenged, said Kenneth Carpenter, curator of paleontology at the Utah State University East Prehistoric Museum. "If there's a free meal, why not?" he asked. But decay can make carcasses toxic after a while, he said, and "at that point, T. rex is going to have no choice but to hunt." The tail bones where the T. rex tooth was found belonged to an adult hadrosaur, most likely Edmontosaurus, the kind displayed at Houston Museum of Natural Science. (The Wookies/Wikimedia Commons) CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories T. rex was a cannibal T. rex's tail made it speedy External Links Summary of article Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca