http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/scientists-join-list-craze-8-reasons-to-worry-about-global-warming-1.2591456
Scientists join list craze: 8 reasons to worry about global warming | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Scientists join list craze: 8 reasons to worry about global warming Social Sharing Technology & Science Scientists join list craze: 8 reasons to worry about global warming UN scientists have written a boiled-down version of what the warmed-up future holds for Earth if climate change continues. Social Sharing List provides an easy-to-understand list of what to expect if global warming continues The Associated Press · Posted: Mar 29, 2014 4:36 PM ET | Last Updated: March 29, 2014 Top climate scientists say if you think climate change is only faced by some far-off polar bear decades from now, well, you're mistaken. They say the dangers of a warming Earth are immediate and human. (Rick Stevens/Associated Press) comments If you have already read "12 Pieces of Practical Advice from Housecats," now you can move on to "8 Reasons to Worry about Global Warming." A United Nations panel of scientists is joining the list craze with what they call eight "key risks" that are part of broader "reasons for concern" about climate change. Bob McDonald on IPCC climate change report: The good and bad news for Canada Give geoengineering a chance to fix climate change: David Keith Why 'the skeptical environmentalist' won’t be turning off the lights during Earth Hour It's part of a massive report on how global warming is affecting humans and the planet and how the future will be worse unless something is done about it. The report is being finalized at a meeting this weekend by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. They assembled the list to "make it understandable and to illustrate the issues that have the greatest potential to cause real harm," the report's chief author, Chris Field of the Carnegie Institution of Science in California, said in an interview. But a draft of the list — called by the acronym RFCs — includes science-heavy language, caveats and uses lowercase Roman numerals, for example using iv instead of 4. A boiled-down version of what the scientists say the warmed-up future holds for Earth if climate change continues: 1. Coastal flooding will kill people and cause destruction. 2. Some people will go hungry because of warming, drought and severe downpours. 3. Big cites will be damaged by inland flooding. 4. Water shortages will make the poor even poorer in rural areas. 5. Crazy weather, like storms, can make life miserable, damaging some of the things we take for granted, like electricity, running water and emergency services. 6. Some fish and other marine animals could be in trouble, which will probably hurt fishing communities. 7. Some land animals won't do much better and that's not good for people who depend on them. 8. Heat waves, especially in cities, will kill the elderly and very young. So far, the scientists haven't come up with the next step, common on Facebook pages: The interactive quiz to determine which global warming problem you most resemble. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories In Depth Give geoengineering a chance to fix climate change: David Keith Bob McDonald on IPCC Climate change report Audio A case for climate engineering Audio 'Planet hacking' to control climate sparks controversy Artificial cooling of Earth could reverse global warming Iron dumping off B.C. draws UN group's condemnation Creating clouds to ease global warming would harm ozone layer: study Artificial volcanoes, space umbrellas among far-out climate change plans Scientists eye odd climate fixes New weapon in climate change battle: Plankton? Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca