https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/satellites-show-ozone-depletion-levelling-off-1.842616
Satellites show ozone depletion levelling off | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Satellites show ozone depletion levelling off Social Sharing Technology & Science Satellites show ozone depletion levelling off The depletion of the ozone layer has leveled off, and the amount of the UV-filtering gas has slightly increased over the last decade, European scientists say. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Sep 21, 2009 1:35 PM ET | Last Updated: September 21, 2009 The depletion of the ozone layer has levelled off, and the amount of the UV-filtering gas has slightly increased over the last decade, European scientists say. The finding is the result of compiling ozone measurements from several European and American satellites from 1979 to 2008. The researchers from Chalmers University of Technology in Gothenburg, Sweden, combined the readings of several instruments on NASA and European satellites, some of which look vertically down to the ground, and others that look sideways at the layers of the Earth's atmosphere. Jo Urban of Chalmers said their analysis shows a decline in ozone in the upper stratosphere of about seven per cent per decade between 1979 and 1997. "A clear statistically significant change of trend can be seen around 1997," said Urban, in a release. After 1997, Urban said, a small increase of about one per cent per decade was found, although statistically that increase was not significantly different from no change at all. The results were presented as part of the European Space Agency's conference on atmospheric science in Barcelona in September. Ozone, a bluish gas composed of three oxygen atoms, is harmful to breathe, but absorbs ultraviolet radiation that harms living organisms. Its presence in our stratosphere helps keep harmful UV rays originating from the sun from reaching the Earth. The thinning ozone layer increases the risk of skin cancer and cataracts. A hole in the ozone layer over Antarctica typically reaches its maximum size in September or early October, and then dissipates into smaller parts throughout southern latitudes, affecting the UV exposure in places such as New Zealand, Australia and South America. NASA and the ESA have been monitoring the depletion of ozone through satellite observations since the 1970s. The increasing size of the hole in the 1980s was the motivation behind restrictions on the use of chlorofluorocarbons, or CFCs, introduced in the Montreal Protocol. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories New theory blames cosmic rays for helping CFCs deplete ozone NASA says ozone layer hole 5th biggest on record South Pole ozone hole could be largest ever IN DEPTH: The end of HCFCs External Links Atmospheric Science Conference, from ESA Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca