https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/cone-shaped-sea-creatures-finally-get-place-on-evolutionary-tree-1.3929408
Cone-shaped sea creatures finally get place on evolutionary tree | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Cone-shaped sea creatures finally get place on evolutionary tree Social Sharing Technology & Science Cone-shaped sea creatures finally get place on evolutionary tree Ancient sea creatures roamed Earth 530 million years ago. But until now, paleontologists didn't quite know where they belonged on the evolutionary tree. Social Sharing Researchers from the University of Toronto and the Royal Ontario Museum contribute to breakthrough Nicole Mortillaro · CBC News · Posted: Jan 11, 2017 1:00 PM ET | Last Updated: January 13, 2017 This illustration shows the hyolith Haplophrentis extending the tentacles of its feeding organ (lophophore) from between its shells. The paired spines, or 'helens,' are rotated downwards to prop the animal up off the ocean floor. (Artist: Danielle Dufault. © Royal Ontario Museum) It looks like an alien creature: a critter with a cone-shaped shell, long arms and tentacles fluttering out of its fleshy opening. It's not from another world, but an ancient one. However, until now, hyoliths didn't have a place on Earth's tree of life. The marine creatures that were mere centimetres long were discovered about 175 years ago. Though many fossils exist around the world, scientists couldn't gather much data from what they found, leaving this ancient creature dangling without a place on the evolutionary tree. Feathered dinosaur tail found trapped in amber In 2014, a team of Canadian scientists led by 20-year-old University of Toronto undergraduate student Joseph Moysiuk, found a hyolith fossil in Marble Canyon, part of the fossil-rich Burgess Shale in British Columbia. This was a valuable acquisition: it contained the soft tissue of the critter that roamed the Earth 530 million years ago. The fossilized remains of the Haplophrentis operculum. (© Royal Ontario Museum) For years, scientists believed that hyoliths were related to the same family as snails and mollusks, rather than a group called brachiopods. "What little we did know, from the shells, just wasn't enough to establish where these things fit on the tree of life," Moysiuk told CBC News. "Brachiopods and clams without their soft tissues might actually look quite similar, even though they belong to totally different branches. It's just a question of not having enough information." But the soft tissue collected by co-authors of the study that appears in Nature — Martin Smith of Durham University in the United Kingdom and Jean-Bernard Caron from the Royal Ontario Museum — provided them with very important information. "Our new preserved soft tissue discovery that we found at the Burgess Shale include this band of tentacles around the mouth, a feeding structure. And this feeding structure allows us to link the hyoliths with brachiopods." The hyolith finally had a home. Differences When we think of hard-shelled marine animals, we might envision mussels and clams. These bivalve mollusks are separated by left and right shells. However, with brachiopods, the soft body exists between enclosed upper and lower shells. Amazing fossils found by ordinary people thrill scientists A new theory about the ancient fossils at Mistaken Point There are other differences as well, Moysiuk said. "Like other organisms, including us, clams and brachiopods have a plane of symmetry down the middle of their body. In brachiopods, that plane of symmetry runs through the middle of both shells. In other words, the two sides of the shells are symmetrical with each other. In clams, the two shells are separated by each other by a plane of symmetry. So the two shells are identical to each other but the shells themselves don't have a plane of symmetry within them." University of Toronto student Joseph Moysiuk showing matching halves of a fossil slab while in Kootenay National Park on a Royal Ontario Museum field expedition in 2014. (© Joseph Moysiuk) As for the two protrusions on either side of the shells — called helens — though they've been known for some time, scientists were unable to determine their function. "There is no equivalent to these structures in any other group of organisms," Moysiuk said. The researchers studied the angles at which the helens were preserved and concluded that hyoliths may have been able to rotate them into a position below the body, propping it up, allowing it to feed, with the tentacles straining particles out of the water. New piece to puzzle "Our study adds a new piece to the puzzle, in trying to unravel the story of the tree of life," Moysiuk said. The hyolith now exists in the group lophophorata in-between two modern groups of organisms, the brachiopods and phoronid worms (known as horseshoe worms). While the worms don't have shells, they do have a similarly elongated body like the hyolith. "It's been very exciting," Moysiuk said. "It's so significant for our understanding for the early evolution of animals." About the Author Nicole Mortillaro Senior Reporter, Science Nicole has an avid interest in all things science. As an amateur astronomer, Nicole can be found looking up at the night sky appreciating the marvels of our universe. She is the editor of the Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada and the author of several books. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Q&A Scientists revive tardigrades frozen for more than 30 years Bay of Fundy fossil dig unearths 25 specimens in Parrsboro cliffs Ancient footprints reveal clues about our human ancestors Greenland shark, oldest known living vertebrate, hits puberty at 150 External Links Nature Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca