http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/warm-october-global-temperature-1.3855321
October's global temperature not a record breaker, though 2016 likely to end up another hot one | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news October's global temperature not a record breaker, though 2016 likely to end up another hot one Social Sharing Technology & Science October's global temperature not a record breaker, though 2016 likely to end up another hot one Federal meteorologists say while last month merely tied for the world's third warmest October in history, 2016 is still on track to be the hottest year on record. Social Sharing Noticeable warming in Alaska measurements so far this century The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 17, 2016 1:16 PM ET | Last Updated: November 18, 2016 Global temperatures continue to rise (NASA) Federal meteorologists say while last month merely tied for the world's third warmest October in history, 2016 is still on track to be the hottest year on record. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has announced the globe averaged 14.7 C, which is 0.7 C warmer than the 20th-century average but not as warm as Octobers in 2015 and 2014. New report outlines climate change challenges on Canada's Arctic coast World's lakes are warming surprisingly quickly due to climate change From May 2015 to August 2016, Earth set monthly heat records for 16 straight months. The first 10 months of 2016 have been the hottest year to date, averaging 15.07 C. That beats 2015 by 0.1 C. Scientists blame continued man-made climate change from the burning of fossil fuels, goosed by a now-gone El Nino. El Nino is the occasional natural warming of parts of the Pacific that changes weather worldwide. NOAA climate scientist Jessica Blunden said it is likely that this year will eclipse 2015 as the hottest year on record . If November and October are just average for the 21st century, it will set a new record. But Blunden said a weak La Nina, the cooling flip side of El Nino, provides a small possibility that 2016 will slip slightly behind 2015. Still, 2016, 2015 and 2014 will go down as the three hottest years on record "however they stack up," Blunden said. Records go back to 1880. Since 2000, the globe has set 42 monthly heat records and four annual heat records. No global monthly records for cold have been set since December 1916. New Mexico had its hottest October on record, while neighbouring Arizona, Texas, Oklahoma and Colorado had near record heat for the month. NOAA meteorologists said the Arctic was unusually warm for a long period of time, both before and after the strong El Nino. Parts of Greenland, including the top of Greenland's ice sheet, were more than 7 C warmer than average last month. There has been "a meteoric rise in October temperatures on Alaska's north slope," said Rick Thoman, NOAA's climate science and services manager in Alaska. The average October temperature in 2016 in Barrow, Alaska, was -1 C, while the 20th century normal was an average of -9 C degrees. And the last 15 years have all averaged more than -6.6 C in October in Barrow. "Since October 2001, there have been no cold Octobers [in Barrow], not one," Thoman said. "This change is the direct result of the really catastrophic loss of autumn sea ice on Alaska's north coast." Arctic sea ice in October — the first full month when sea ice is supposed to grow in the region set a record low for the month, Blunden said. She called the Arctic the "canary in the coal mine" for global warming. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Coming Trump presidency won't alter Alberta climate plan Environment minister says global movement to combat climate change 'an irresistible force' Q&A David Suzuki on Donald Trump, climate change and the right to a healthy environment Alberta ski resorts urged to diversify after World Cup event cancelled due to lack of snow Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca