https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/pregnant-t-rex-1.3492716
'Pregnant' T. rex discovery confirmed | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news 'Pregnant' T. rex discovery confirmed Social Sharing Technology & Science 'Pregnant' T. rex discovery confirmed A Tyrannosaurus rex that died 68 million years ago in what is now Montana was about to lay eggs at the time, U.S. researchers have confirmed. Social Sharing Chemical test for medullary bone, found during egg laying, positively identifies females Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Mar 15, 2016 8:32 PM ET | Last Updated: March 16, 2016 Chemical tests confirmed the T. rex's thigh bone contained a special kind of bone that is expected to only form when a dinosaur is laying eggs or about to lay eggs. (Mark Hallett/North Carolina State University) comments A Tyrannosaurus rex that died 68 million years ago in what is now Montana was "pregnant" at the time, U.S. researchers have confirmed. Chemical tests confirmed the T. rex's thigh bone contained medullary bone — a special kind of bone that is expected to only form when a dinosaur is laying eggs or about to lay eggs. The fossil was excavated at Montana's Hell Creek Formation in 2002. (Museum of the Rockies) The T. rex fossil was excavated between 2000 and 2003 from Montana's Hell Creek Formation by paleontologists at the Museum of the Rockies in Bozeman, Mon. Some of the pieces were broken, and Mary Schweitzer, a paleontologist at North Carolina State University and the North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences, was sent a box of those fragments to look at. "I opened the box, pulled out the first piece and said, 'It's a girl and it's pregnant,'" she recalled in an interview with CBC News Wednesday. She had noticed that the bone had an unusual structure, different from normal bone, and that looked like the medullary bone found in long bones such as the thigh bones of female birds when they are about to lay eggs. Medullary bone acts as a calcium reservoir that can be quickly used to form eggshells. Because birds and meat-eating dinosaurs such as T. rex are closely related, scientists had predicted that medullary bone might one day be found in dinosaurs. Schweitzer published the findings in a paper in Science in 2005. Mary Schweitzer talks to Quirks & Quarks March 19 at noon on CBC Radio One The T. rex thigh bone was broken, allowing researchers to see inside. (Museum of the Rockies) But recently, other paleontologists said they were skeptical of Schweitzer's conclusions.They suggested the strange structure of the bone might actually be due to injury or disease. "So … we just went back and eliminated those possibilities by using the chemistry preserved in the bone," Schweitzer said. "A good scientist always goes back every now and then and rechecks everything that they had done." She and her colleagues used antibodies and stains to test for a special carbohydrate called keratan sulfate, which is found in medullary bone but not other kinds of bone. They compared the results with the medullary bones and regular bones of ostriches and chickens. The chemical tests confirmed that what they had thought was medullary bone in the T. rex actually was. The tests also show that medullary bone has the same chemistry in both birds and dinosaurs, suggesting their reproduction is similar, Schweitzer said. The results were reported today in the journal Scientific Reports. Only way to tell male from female Schweitzer's co-author, Lindsay Zanno, a paleontologist at the same university and museum, said up until now, scientists haven't had a reliable way to tell males from females. "Just being able to identify a dinosaur definitively as a female opens up a whole new world of possibilities," she said in a statement. "Now that we can show pregnant dinosaurs have a chemical fingerprint, we need a concerted effort to find more." This T. rex fossil shows medullary bone (MB), which has a different structure from regular bone (CB) when viewed under a microscope. (Schweitzer et al./Scientific Reports) In fact, medullary bone has been reported in several other dinosaurs since Schweitzer's original 2005 paper, including another meat-eater called an Allosaurus, and two Tenontosauruses – plant-eating dinosaurs that are not closely related to birds. Schweitzer added that knowing that the dinosaur is female could allow researchers to identify "female" traits in other parts of the body that are visible all the time, even when the dinosaurs isn't about to lay eggs. That, in turn, could tell scientists a lot more about things such as the sex ratios in the population. Schweitzer had previously faced plenty of skepticism from other scientists after reporting that she had found preserved blood cells and soft tissues in dinosaur fossils a couple of decades ago, when most scientists believed that such old tissues couldn't possibly be preserved. "This work, I would say, is far less controversial," said Susannah Maidment, a junior research fellow in earth science and engineering at Imperial College in London, who was not involved in the study. She is one of many scientists who have discovered soft tissues preserved in dinosaur fossils since Schweitzer's earlier work. Bright spots in an antibody test on the T. rex bone indicate the presence of keratan sulfate, which is found in medullary bone but not other kinds of bone. (Schweitzer et al./Scientific Reports) Maidment said the new study confirms that the sex of a female dinosaur can be identified if she is laying eggs, and provides a chemical method for identification. "But it also adds to this very large body of evidence that suggests that original components of soft tissue [such as keratin sulfate] can be preserved in the fossil record for extremely long time scales under certain conditions." Maidment said that opens up the possibility of being able to study dinosaurs' metabolism and other aspects of their biology that can't be studied from their bones alone. Up until now, scientists haven't had a reliable way to tell apart male and female T. rex's (or other dinosaurs). Dinosaur researchers reveal how males wooed mates Alberta dinosaur egg excavation could yield rare fossilized babies CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Dinosaur blood cells, proteins found in crummy Alberta fossils Dinosaur researchers reveal how males wooed mates Fossil eggs reveal how warm blooded dinosaurs were Dinosaur nesting research at the U of C shows similarities to birds Small, brainy tyrannosaur sheds light on how T. rex evolved Alberta dinosaur egg excavation could yield rare fossilized babies External Links Full paper in Scientific Reports 2005 Science paper Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca