http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/ancient-bird-archaeopteryx-s-feathery-details-revealed-by-fossil-1.2695002
Ancient bird Archaeopteryx's feathery details revealed by fossil | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Ancient bird Archaeopteryx's feathery details revealed by fossil Social Sharing Technology & Science Ancient bird Archaeopteryx's feathery details revealed by fossil Scientists have long debated whether the ancient dinosaur-like bird Archaeopteryx really could fly. The debate appears to have been settled by an analysis of a fossil that preserves the bird's feathers in incredible detail. Social Sharing Best-preserved fossil ever shows 'feather trousers' on legs Thomson Reuters · Posted: Jul 03, 2014 9:21 AM ET | Last Updated: July 3, 2014 An artist's reconstruction based on the fossil shows that contour feathers — the basic vaned, quill-like feathers of a bird — covered Archaeopteryx's entire body up to the head as in modern birds. (R. Liebreich/Bavarian State Collection for Paleontology and Geology) comments Since its first fossil was unearthed in Bavarian limestone in 1861, Archaeopteryx — the original early bird — has been a paleontological rock star. Not only is it considered Earth's oldest-known bird but its blend of primitive dinosaur traits with characteristics seen in modern birds has long fascinated scientists. However, none of the specimens found over the years had given a comprehensive view of its plumage, leading some experts to question whether Archaeopteryx was a capable flier — or could even fly at all. Oldest bird tracks in the world found in B.C. That has all changed. Scientists on Wednesday described the best-preserved fossil of Archaeopteryx ever found, revealing the whole plumage in great detail including a feather arrangement fully capable of flight and curious "feather trousers" on the legs. The fossil studied in the paper is the best-preserved Archaeopteryx fossil ever found. The level of preservation is due to the fossil's fine-grained limestone, formed in an ancient lagoon. It was found by a private collector in northern Bavaria in Germany. (H. Tischlinger/Bayerische Staatssammlung für Paläontologie und Geologie) The level of preservation is due to the fossil's fine-grained limestone, formed in an ancient lagoon. It was found by a private collector in northern Bavaria in Germany. Archaeopteryx lived 150 million years ago, but its plumage in many ways resembled today's birds. The fossil showed that contour feathers — the basic vaned, quill-like feathers of a bird — covered its entire body up to the head as in modern birds. The shafts of the wing feathers were comparable in strength to those of modern birds. And the plumage of the hind limbs looked like that of modern birds of prey like falcons and eagles. "Since its first discovery in the 1860s, Archaeopteryx has been the object of many debates in relation to bird evolution, especially flight and feather evolution. There were debates if it was ground-dwelling or arboreal, if it could fly or not," said paleontologist Oliver Rauhut of the Bayerische Staatssammlung für Paläontologie und Geologie in Munich. 'Original bird' status Paleontologist Christian Foth of the same institution said some scientists had suggested the vanes of its feathers were too weak to support flight, but the new fossil backs the idea Archaeopteryx was completely capable of flying. "It retains its status as the Urvogel," Foth said, using the German word meaning "original bird." Dinosaur feathers likely for sex, not flying Birds arose during the Jurassic Period from small feathered bipedal dinosaurs. They were not alone in the skies, which were dominated by flying reptiles known as pterosaurs. The feathers on Archaepoteryx's legs were quite long but were restricted to the thigh and shank, looking like 'feather trousers.' They may have been used for display and to stabilize flight during landing. (H. Tischlinger/Bayerische Staatssammlung für Paläontologie und Geologie) Archaeopteryx was a crow-sized bird with primitive traits like teeth, a long bony tail and the absence of a bony, keeled sternum where flight muscles attach. The feathers on its legs were quite long but were restricted to the thigh and shank, looking like "feather trousers." They may have been used for display and to stabilize flight during landing. Feathers appeared in dinosaurs millions of years before the first birds and initially had nothing to do with flight. In fact, full-fledged contour feathers have been found on dinosaur species that did not fly. "The original feathers were simple filaments or down feathers, and probably used for body insulation, camouflage, but also display," Foth said. "This probably was also true for the first contour feathers. However, once contour feathers were evolved, they could be easily recruited for aerodynamic functions," Foth added. The study was published in the journal Nature. This image shows the bird's tail feathers. The shafts of the wing feathers were comparable in strength to those of modern birds. (H. Tischlinger/Bayerische Staatssammlung für Paläontologie und Geologie) CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories 'Oldest bird tracks in world' found in B.C. Dinosaur feathers likely for sex, not flying Huge, feathered tyrannosaur surprises researchers Early dinosaur's feathers were for show, not flight External Links Summary of the paper in Nature Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca