https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/scientists-take-1-billion-census-of-marine-life-1.374816
Scientists take $1-billion census of marine life | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Scientists take $1-billion census of marine life Social Sharing Technology & Science Scientists take $1-billion census of marine life Scientists from 53 countries aim to catalog all life in world's oceans by 2010. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Oct 23, 2003 9:50 PM ET | Last Updated: October 24, 2003 An international group of scientists met in Washington, D.C., on Thursday to report on their project to catalogue all life in the world's oceans. The Census of Marine Life has been underway for three years and is scheduled to run until 2010. So far, researchers have found hundreds of new species of fish, plants and animals, including a soft coral with starry feathers and a purple orchid animal that scientists are having difficulty classifying. The census began because of scientists' concerns after a 1995 report by the National Academy of Sciences in the U.S. found that human population growth was rapidly reducing the diversity of life in the oceans. Researchers from 53 countries are also collecting data about species endangered by pollution, climate change and overfishing. They say the gaps in knowledge appear as wide as the unexplored sea. "Less than 1/10th of one per cent of the ocean has ever been sampled," said Ronald O'Dor, a squid biologist at Dalhousie University in Halifax and chief scientist for the census. "When you start looking at the things that live in the sand and in the mud or in the mid-water column, you don't have to go very far off away from the shore to find new mysteries." O'Dor calls the $1-billion US project a race against extinction. "It literally is a race," he said. "We want to know what's here, and we want to provide a baseline against which people can measure changes." Scientists say they are making progress. Dr. David Welch of Vancouver heads a field project for the census called Pacific Ocean Shelf Tracking. Welch implants transponders in salmon and then traces the fish to remote listening stations. "We can completely count even small animals, the size of, say, a canned sardine, and therefore we can tell you what areas of the West Coast have good survival for salmon stocks." His project will cost $10 million a year to run. Environmentalists hope to use the data to fight overfishing and marine pollution. Industry aims for more efficient shipping and fishing, new pharmaceuticals and industrial compounds. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Census of Marine Life Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca