https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/polar-bear-swims-9-days-straight-1.979543
Polar bear swims 9 days straight | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Polar bear swims 9 days straight Social Sharing Technology & Science Polar bear swims 9 days straight A female polar bear swam the equivalent of 16 marathons back-to-back off the coast of Alaska, researchers report. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jan 28, 2011 3:47 PM ET | Last Updated: January 28, 2011 A female polar bear swam the equivalent of 16 marathons back-to-back off the coast of Alaska, researchers report. After swimming nearly 700 kilometres through the Beaufort Sea over nine days, she went on to swim and walk intermittently on the sea ice for an additional 1,800 kilometres over a period of about two months, according to a report published in the January issue of Polar Biology. The study demonstrates that bears can adapt in some ways to the loss of sea ice in the Arctic as a result of climate change, said George Durner, a research zoologist with the U.S. Geological Survey who co-authored the paper. "They can swim between ice floes that are far apart. They can swim between ice and land, even though that distance can be great," he said. But it also shows that doing so can have a negative impact, he added. The bear lost 22 per cent of her body weight and her year-old cub over the course of her journey, and had obviously been food-deprived. "I guess it shows the vulnerable side of polar bears to large changes in their environment," Durner said. Going the distance Over nine days, the bear swam 687 kilometres, which is roughly equivalent to: 16 marathons. The point-to-point distance between Vancouver and Calgary. More than twice the length of Lake Ontario. The researchers aren't sure how unusual the bear's behaviour is, but she did seem to travel much farther than any other bear studied before. "What makes her particularly unique was the wealth of data that we have on her," Durner added. The bear was fitted with a radio-tracking collar in August 2008 that recorded her GPS coordinates each hour until she was captured again in late October. The collar also collected data using temperature and motion sensors. In recent years, more and more sea ice has been melting during the summer as the climate warms in the Arctic. Some polar bears deal with this by spending more time on land, but many follow the ice. The study, a collaboration involving the geological survey, the University of Wyoming and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, sought to figure out the costs and benefits to polar bears of spending more time on land or on the ice under the changing conditions. The researchers' ultimate goal is to be able to improve their forecast of polar bear population trends and design strategies to manage the polar bear population. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Polar bears likely to have tough year: expert Hope for polar bears Northern sea ice growth a fluke: researcher Arctic sea ice shrinks to lowest area on record External Links Link to the article in Polar Biology Link to the article in Polar Biology Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca