https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/400-million-year-old-gigantic-worm-1.3996315
New species of gigantic, toothy worm identified in Canadian fossil collection | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news New species of gigantic, toothy worm identified in Canadian fossil collection Social Sharing Technology & Science New species of gigantic, toothy worm identified in Canadian fossil collection Researchers have discovered a new species of an ancient worm that was more than a metre long and had powerful jaws and teeth with which to catch its prey. Social Sharing 400-million-year-old fossil specimen has been in Royal Ontario Museum collection since 1994 Nicole Mortillaro · CBC News · Posted: Feb 24, 2017 12:49 PM ET | Last Updated: February 24, 2017 The 400-million-year-old fossil of a species of worm called Websteroprion armstrongi had been in a collection at the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto since 1994 but has only recently been closely studied. (Luke Parry) Scientists have discovered a new species of a gigantic prehistoric worm. This new species, called Websteroprion armstrongi — named after bassist Alex Webster of the death metal band Cannibal Corpse — is closely related to earthworms and leeches. Feathered dinosaur tail found trapped in amber 'It's like nothing else on earth': Rarest of gemstones fuels boom for Alberta miners The worm was studied by researchers from the University of Bristol, Lund University in Sweden and the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto. The specimen was found southeast of Moosonee, Ont., in the Hudson Bay basin in 1994 and had been in the ROM's collection since then but hadn't been closely studied until recently. Their findings were reported in the journal Scientific Reports. It is a very mean worm. - Sebastian Kvist , Royal Ontario Museum Websteroprion armstrongi, which belongs to the Eunicida family, is like something out of a science fiction film. Measuring between one to two metres, it would burrow deep under the sediment of the ocean floor. But you'd hardly notice it: the only thing remaining above ground were its jaws, waiting for unsuspecting prey. An artistic reconstruction showing the wide jaws of the W. armstrongi worm about to clamp down on a fish in the Devonian period. (James Ormiston) While it was a very long worm, its jaw structure was a mere one centimetre in length. However, it is the longest jaw ever recorded for the species. "It's a very long and slender worm," said Sebastion Kvist, curator of invertebrates at the ROM. "So, a centimetre is actually quite big for jaws. Normally, the jaws that they find in bedrock are only a couple of millimetres." The jaws spread out perpendicular to the body and then snap shut. The worm then pulls its meal down into the burrow. "It is a very mean worm," Kvist said. There are worms around today that resemble the Websteroprion armstrongi (see video below). But this specimen is the oldest example of the species found so far. The finding is a significant for understanding the early history of our planet. Newly discovered ruby sea dragon seen alive in wild for 1st time Candy-striped hermit crab discovered in Caribbean "It's the oldest fossil of we know of this particular family," Kvist said. "The finding extends the range of time that these organisms have been present on Earth, and it allows us to better understand the ecology that was present at this age." These "Bobbitt worms," as the Eunicida worms are informally called in a cheeky nod to Lorena Bobbitt, a U.S. woman who cut off her husband's penis while he slept in 1993, are found in warmer ocean waters in the Indo-Pacific region and in parts of the Atlantic Ocean. In many regions, they are used as bait, and in the Pacific Islands, they are considered a delicacy to be eaten. About the Author Nicole Mortillaro Senior Reporter, Science Nicole has an avid interest in all things science. As an amateur astronomer, Nicole can be found looking up at the night sky appreciating the marvels of our universe. She is the editor of the Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada and the author of several books. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories New prehistoric bird species identified in Canadian Arctic Tiny, bag-like fossil creature could be early human ancestor 500-million year old 'ovation worm' unveiled for first time by ROM researchers External Links Scientific Reports Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca