https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/antarctic-marine-census-finds-bizarre-wonders-1.714070
Antarctic marine census finds bizarre wonders | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Antarctic marine census finds bizarre wonders Social Sharing Technology & Science Antarctic marine census finds bizarre wonders Scientists investigating the icy waters of Antarctica said Tuesday they have collected several mysterious creatures from 2,000 metres below the ocean's surface, including giant sea spiders and huge worms. Social Sharing Plate-sized spiders, glass-like metre-tall plants The Associated Press · Posted: Feb 19, 2008 10:12 AM ET | Last Updated: February 19, 2008 Scientists investigating the icy waters of Antarctica said Tuesday they have collected several mysterious creatures from 2,000 metres below the ocean's surface, including giant sea spiders and huge worms. Australian experts taking part in an international program to conduct a census of marine life in the ocean at the far south of the world said many species may never have been seen before. Some of the animals far under the sea grow to unusually large sizes, a phenomenon called gigantism that scientists still do not fully understand. "Gigantism is very common in Antarctic waters," Martin Riddle, the Australian scientist who led the expedition, said in a statement. "We have collected huge worms, giant crustaceans and sea spiders the size of dinner plates." The specimens were being sent to universities and museums around the world for identification, tissue sampling and DNA studies. Strange fins, dangly bits and huge eyes "Not all of the creatures that we found could be identified and it is very likely that some new species will be recorded as a result of these voyages," said Graham Hosie, head of the census project. "In some places every inch of the sea floor is covered in life," Riddle said. "In other places, we can see deep scars and gouges where icebergs scour the sea floor as they pass by." Among the bizarre-looking creatures the scientists spotted were tunicates, plankton-eating animals that resemble slender glass structures up to a metre tall "standing in fields like poppies," Riddle said. Other animals were equally baffling. "They had fins in various places, they had funny dangly bits around their mouths," Riddle said. "They were all bottom-dwellers so they were all evolved in different ways to live down on the seabed in the dark. So many of them had very large eyes — very strange looking fish." Study measures impact of climate change The expedition is part of an ambitious international effort to map life forms in the Antarctic Ocean, also known as the Southern Ocean, and to study the impact of forces such as climate change on the undersea environment. Three ships — Aurora Australis from Australia, France's L'Astrolabe and Japan's Umitaka Maru — returned recently from two months in the region as part of the Collaborative East Antarctic Marine Census. The work is part of a larger project to map the biodiversity of the world's oceans. The French and Japanese ships sought specimens from the mid- and upper-level environment, while the Australian ship plumbed deeper waters with remote-controlled cameras. Scientists are planning a follow-up expedition in 10 to 15 years to examine the effects of climate changes on the region's environment. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories First Antarctic marine census launched External Links Australia's Antarctic division Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca