https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/individual-quotas-could-save-fisheries-study-finds-1.768264
Individual quotas could save fisheries, study finds | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Individual quotas could save fisheries, study finds Social Sharing Technology & Science Individual quotas could save fisheries, study finds Giving individual fishermen a specified share of the catch may help prevent overfishing and halt the collapse of fish stocks, according to a new report. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Sep 18, 2008 3:13 PM ET | Last Updated: September 18, 2008 Giving individual fishermen a specified share of the catch may help prevent overfishing and halt the collapse of fish stocks, according to a new report. In regions where individual catch shares were used instead of just industry-wide quotas, the chances of a fishery collapsing were half that of fisheries that didn't use them, according to researchers at the University of California, Santa Barbara, writing in Friday's edition of the journal Science. "Implementation of catch shares halts, and even reverses, the global trend toward widespread collapse," wrote authors Christopher Costello, Steven Gaines and John Lynham. "Institutional change has the potential for greatly altering the future of global fisheries." In a catch-share system, an individual fisherman or fishing co-operative is allocated a share of the catch based on their share in previous years. These shares can be exercised or sold to others. Catch shares are common in New Zealand, Australia and Iceland and have been implemented in some parts of the U.S. and Canada. Five fisheries use the individual quotas in Eastern Canada, and 14 use them along the Pacific Coast, a region that includes both British Columbia and Alaska. The authors say the individual quotas, or catch shares, put a greater personal emphasis on stewardship of resources. Industry-wide quotas, on the other hand, motivate individuals in a "race to fish" to beat out others before the quotas are reached, the authors said. The researchers based their findings on an analysis of 11,135 fisheries for a period from 1950 to 2003, of which 121 used individual transferable quotas. Even when accounting for factors such as location and time, the authors found fish-sharing strategies helped curb fisheries collapse. The advocacy group Environmental Defense Fund welcomed the report. "The trend around the world has been to fish the oceans until the fish are gone," said David Festa, the group's vice-president and oceans director. "The scientific data presented today shows we can turn this pattern on its head. Anyone who cares about saving fisheries and fishing jobs will find this study highly motivating." With files from the Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca