https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/biggest-flying-bird-ever-gets-identified-from-fossil-1.2698978
Biggest flying bird ever gets identified from fossil | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Biggest flying bird ever gets identified from fossil Social Sharing Technology & Science Biggest flying bird ever gets identified from fossil The biggest flying bird that ever lived had double the wingspan of today's biggest flying bird, the Royal albatross. Social Sharing Toothy extinct bird lived about 25 million years ago Thomson Reuters · Posted: Jul 07, 2014 3:39 PM ET | Last Updated: July 8, 2014 The extinct seabird Pelagornis sandersi may be the biggest flying bird ever found, with a wingspan of up to 7 metres. It lived about 25 million years ago. (Liz Bradford) The biggest flying bird that ever lived had double the wingspan of today's biggest flying bird, the royal albatross. The royal albatross, with a wingspan of 3.5 metres, is a mere pigeon compared to an astonishing extinct bird called Pelagornis sanders, identified by scientists on Monday from fossils unearthed in South Carolina. The bird lived 25 to 28 million years ago and boasted the largest-known avian wingspan in history, about 6.1 to 7.4 meters. That approaches the wingspans of ultralight airplanes and hang glider, which are in the range of 8.5 to 9 metres. Size alone did not make the bird unique. It had a series of bony, tooth-like projections from its long jaws that helped it scoop up fish and squid along the eastern coast of North America. "Anyone with a beating heart would have been struck with awe," said paleontologist Daniel Ksepka of the Bruce Museum in Greenwich, Connecticut, who led the study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. "This bird would have just blotted out the sun as it swooped overhead. Up close, it may have called to mind a dragon." Summary of the paper in PNAS With its short, stumpy legs, it may not have been graceful on land, but its long, slender wings made it a highly efficient glider able to remain airborne for long stretches despite its size. It belonged to an extinct group called pelagornithids that thrived from about 55 million years ago to 3 million years ago. The last birds with teeth went extinct 65 million years ago in the same calamity that killed the dinosaurs. But this group developed "pseudoteeth" to serve the same purpose. They lived on every continent including Antarctica. Paleontologist Dan Ksepka examines a fossilized skull of the bird, which was found during excavations for the Charleston International Airport in South Carolina in 1983. (Dan Ksepka/National Evolutionary Synthesis Centre) "The cause of their extinction, however, is still shrouded in mystery," Ksepka said. "All modern birds lack teeth, but early birds such as Archaeopteryx had teeth inherited from their non-bird, dinosaurian ancestors. So in this case the pelagornithids did not evolve new true teeth, which are in sockets, but rather were constrained by prior evolution to develop tooth-like projections of their jaw bones," said Paul Olsen, a Columbia University paleontologist who did not take part in the study. Ancient bird Archaeopteryx's feathery details revealed by fossil Pterosaur lifestyle These birds lived very much like some of the pterosaurs, the extinct flying reptiles that lived alongside the dinosaurs that achieved the largest wingspans of any flying creatures, reaching about 11 metres. Its fossils were found in 1983 when construction workers were building a new terminal at the Charleston International Airport. Its skull is nearly complete and in great condition, and scientists also have important wing and leg bones, the shoulder blade and wishbone. Until now, the birds with the largest-known wingspans were the slightly smaller condor-like Argentavis magnificens, which lived about 6 million years ago in Argentina, and another pelagornithid, Pelagornis chilensis, that lived in Chile at about the same time. At about 22 to 40 kilograms, Pelagornis sanders was far from the heaviest bird in history, with numerous extinct flightless birds far more massive. This is an artist's drawing of the new fossil species Pelagornis sandersi, with the bone fragments the workers found shown in white. Silhouettes compare its size to that of a California condor (left) and Royal albatross (right), two of the biggest living flying birds. (Liz Bradford) CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Ancient bird Archaeopteryx's feathery details revealed by fossil 'Oldest bird tracks in world' found in B.C. Rare ancient bird had sharp, serrated teeth Scientists discover colours of 120-million-year-old bird External Links Summary of article in PNAS Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca