https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/nasa-delays-shuttle-landing-1.668341
NASA delays shuttle landing | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news NASA delays shuttle landing Social Sharing Technology & Science NASA delays shuttle landing NASA has identified five possible times to land the space shuttle Atlantis on Friday, after thunder and low clouds halted plans for it to return to Earth Thursday. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Jun 21, 2007 8:49 AM ET | Last Updated: June 21, 2007 NASA has identifiedfive possible times toland the space shuttle AtlantisonFriday, after thunder and low cloudshalted plans for it to return to Earth Thursday. The shuttle's first landing opportunity was to be at 1:55 p.m. ET.A3:30 p.m. landing was also scrubbed because of the weather. NASA said Atlantis will have morelanding opportunitiesin the next three days, including five on Friday. On Friday, three of the possible times would meanlandingat Edwards Air Force Base in California.There are also two possible times to land in Florida if the weather clears. The earliest is 2:18 p.m. ET. Atlantis has enough power for its systems to orbit until Sunday, but managers want the shuttle to land by Saturday. NASA managers also prefer landing at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, since there would be less cost and time needed to prepare Atlantis for its next mission, in December. NASA hopes to fly four missions this year. 'Everything looks great' During the crew's 13-day mission to the International Space Station, the astronauts installed a new truss segment, unfurled a new pair of power-generating solar arrays and activated a rotating joint that allows the new solar arrays to track the sun. The mission was extended by two days to give astronauts time to repair a tear in the thermal blanket on the shuttle.Atlantis commander Rick Sturckow said he was confident the repair job would hold up. "Everything looks great," he said Wednesday in an interview with reporters. The shuttle's visit to the space station was complicated by the crash of Russian computers that control orientation and oxygen production. The computers were revived several days later, after cosmonauts Fyodor Yurchikhin and Oleg Kotov used a cable to bypass a circuit board. Astronauts conserved the shuttle's power in case they needed to spend an extra day at the station. Sturckow got a haircut from Yurchikhin while at the space station. Astronaut Sunita (Suni) Williams said a haircut is one of many things she's looking forward to when she returns to Earth on the shuttle after more than six months at the station. Williams set the record for longest single space flight by a woman. "I'm looking forward to going to the beach and hopefully taking a walk with my husband and my dog on the beach," she said. "I can't wait for a good piece of pizza." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories IN DEPTH: Shuttle Landings IN DEPTH: Canada and the International Space Station Shuttle crew awaits clearance before Thursday landing Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca