https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/weir-fishing-grossly-underreported-google-earth-reveals-1.2441101
Weir fishing grossly underreported, Google Earth reveals | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Weir fishing grossly underreported, Google Earth reveals Social Sharing Technology & Science Weir fishing grossly underreported, Google Earth reveals A University of British Columbia Ph.D. student has developed a technique for estimating catches from small-scale fishing using satellite images, and discovered just how grossly underreported such catches are in the Persian Gulf. Social Sharing Cheap, simple technique could provide more accurate fishing statistics worldwide Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Nov 26, 2013 5:01 PM ET | Last Updated: November 27, 2013 Using Google Earth satellite images, Dalal Al-Abdulrazzak counted visible weirs and estimated there were about 1,900 in the Persian Gulf. (Google Earth/University of British Columbia) comments The amount of fish caught by small-scale fisheries using traps called weirs may be six times higher than officially reported in the Persian Gulf, suggest estimates made using images from Google Earth. "We should realize what's being reported to the UN is likely an underestimate. That has implications for fisheries management," said Dalal Al-Abdulrazzak, a Ph.D. student with the University of British Columbia Fisheries Centre in a phone interview Tuesday about the results of the study she led. Al-Abdulrazzak, who is currently working on ocean governance with the United Nations in New York, added that more effort needs to be made to improve the quality of fishing statistics. She said that is especially true in the case of small-scale fisheries that often go underreported because governments think studying them isn't worth the trouble. "Nobody actually thinks they have a large impact, but they do." She added that weir fishing can be particularly damaging to marine ecosystems because it tends to scoop up juvenile fish from their nursery grounds in shallow waters, long before they have a chance to spawn. Al-Abdulrazzak grew up in Kuwait, where she often saw weirs in shallow, intertidal waters along the coasts. The semi-permanent traps, made of bamboo and wire mesh, have a long "wing" that juts out into the water, guiding fish toward a tennis-court sized enclosure called a yard and eventually into pockets where they become trapped. Fishermen collect the fish once a day during low tide. The weirs were such a common sight that Al-Abdulrazzak was surprised to see the low official catch numbers from weir fishing reported to the United Nations. She decided to look for weirs in satellite imagery and see if she could come up with her own estimate. She chose Google Earth as the source of those images because the images are free, accessible, and easy to use, and she hoped to develop a technique that could be used in many different countries – "especially for developing countries where they don't have resources to allocate toward fisheries monitoring or improving data collection." Al-Abdulrazzak said it took her about four months of patient sifting through satellite images and careful counting to estimate a total of 1,900 weirs in the Persian Gulf. She then asked fisheries scientists in the Middle East what average annual fish catches were per weir. Based on that information, she estimated that weirs in Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Iran, and Bahrain scoop up about 31,000 tonnes of fish a year, plus or minus 10,000. That is about six times higher than the 5,260 reported to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization in 2005. No reported catches in 3 countries Al-Abdulrazzak acknowledged that her figure is a rough one, but said it is far better than what currently exists – officially, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Iran reported no weir fishing catches at all. "And my estimates are huge," she added. "My estimate is more likely to be closer to the truth." The results suggest it's not that hard to improve on existing catch statistics, she said, and she hopes more countries will make the effort. "I was able to do it with very few resources and just access to the internet and a little bit of patience... I'm hoping that this will gain some momentum and more people will start using this technique." While Al-Abdulrazzak's study, published Tuesday in the ICES Journal of Marine Science, focused on the Persian Gulf, she noted that weirs are used for fishing "practically worldwide." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Some fish species may never bounce back, says study Smaller fish just as prone to overfishing External Links UBC news release Summary of the paper in ICES Journal of Marine Science Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca