http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/fossils-in-china-reveal-new-stone-age-people-1.1228445
Fossils in China reveal new Stone Age people | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Fossils in China reveal new Stone Age people Social Sharing Technology & Science Fossils in China reveal new Stone Age people Four sets of mysterious human-like fossils found in China may offer insight into a previously unknown Stone Age people, according to an international team of scientists. Social Sharing Youngest of their kind found in mainland East Asia show mix of archaic, modern features CBC News · Posted: Mar 15, 2012 10:29 AM ET | Last Updated: March 15, 2012 An artist's reconstruction of fossils from two caves in southwest China indicate a previously unknown species that survived until the end of the Ice Age, scientists say. (Peter Schouten ) Four sets of mysterious human-like fossils found in China may offer insight into a previously unknown Stone Age people, according to an international team of scientists. The remains were found in two caves in southwest China. "Dated to just 14,500 to 11,500 years old, these people would have shared the landscape with modern-looking people at a time when China's earliest farming cultures were beginning," said a press release from the University of New South Wales. Associate Prof. Darren Cunroeis co-leading the study along with Prof. Ji Xueping from the Yunnan Institute of Cultural Relics and Archeology. The scientists, however, are cautious about making firm judgments about the fossils as they have a mix of modern and archaic features. "These new fossils might be of a previously unknown species, one that survived until the very end of the Ice Age around 11,000 years ago," said Cunroe in the press release. "Alternatively, they might represent a very early and previously unknown migration of modern humans out of Africa, a population who may not have contributed genetically to living people," Cunroe said. The fossils were first found decades ago and stored until the late 2000s, when the team of scientists from five Australian and six Chinese institutions began examining them. In 1979, a partial skeleton was discovered encased in rock by a Chinese geologist in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. It was removed from the rock and reconstructed in 2009 by the team. At least three other sets of remains were found in 1989 nearby in Yuannan Province at Maludong, also called Red Deer Cave. It is believed that these people hunted and cooked the now-extinct red deer. Studies on these fossils started in 2008. The team’s findings have been published in the journal PLoS One from the Public Library of Science. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca