https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/was-blond-mammoth-cached-for-food-by-ice-age-humans-1.1164107
Was blond mammoth cached for food by Ice Age humans? | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Was blond mammoth cached for food by Ice Age humans? Social Sharing Technology & Science·Audio Was blond mammoth cached for food by Ice Age humans? The well-preserved body of a strawberry blond mammoth discovered in Northern Siberia is revealing new insights into the lives of mammoths and Ice Age humans. Social Sharing Yuka's body shows signs of being attacked by lions and butchered by humans CBC News · Posted: Apr 06, 2012 9:17 AM ET | Last Updated: April 6, 2012 The well-preserved body of a strawberry blond mammoth discovered in Northern Siberia is revealing new insights into the lives of mammoths and Ice Age humans. "Yuka" the mammoth was about three years old when she died tens of thousands of years ago and has been buried in permafrost ever since, said Daniel Fisher, a professor of earth and environmental sciences at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. He was one of the researchers studying the body. "She is about as well preserved as if you put any recently dead animal into cold storage very soon after it died," he told CBC Radio's As It Happens this week. "That is, her hair looks and feels like regular hair, her skin is soft and supple, her muscle and so forth is still reddish." Bite marks on her tail and scratches in her hide suggest she was attacked by lions before her death. But there are no bite marks at the base of her trunk and around her mouth which would indicate that the lions tried to suffocate and kill her, nor any evidence that lions opened up her carcass to feed on her after she died. "That's part of the evidence…that leads us to think that humans may have taken over the carcass from lions," Fisher said. The other part is the fact that large parts of the body were removed, including many internal organs, ribs and vertebrae. Fisher believes humans who lived at the time may have taken what they wanted from the body and then buried the rest of the carcass to stop other animals from getting at it. That way, they could come back and collect other parts of the mammoth's body later on if they wished. However, he said, the study is just beginning and researchers expect to uncover more information in the coming weeks or months more of careful investigation. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories As It Happens: Preserved woolly mammoth Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca