https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/tech-leaders-meet-trump-1.3895859
Silicon Valley tech leaders meet with Donald Trump | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Silicon Valley tech leaders meet with Donald Trump Social Sharing Technology & Science Silicon Valley tech leaders meet with Donald Trump Silicon Valley leaders were among Donald Trump's most outspoken opponents during the presidential campaign. On Wednesday, though, many of them came face-to-face with the president-elect for the first time since the election. Social Sharing Tech industry outspoken against Trump during presidential campaign The Associated Press · Posted: Dec 14, 2016 10:27 AM ET | Last Updated: December 15, 2016 Apple CEO Tim Cook, right, and PayPal founder Peter Thiel, centre, listen as President-elect Donald Trump speaks during a meeting with technology industry leaders at Trump Tower in New York on Wednesday. (Evan Vucci/The Associated Press) Silicon Valley leaders were among Donald Trump's most outspoken opponents during the presidential campaign. On Wednesday, though, many of them came face-to-face with the president-elect for the first time since the election. The tech industry had multiple concerns about Trump as a candidate, among them fears that he would stifle innovation, curb the hiring of computer-savvy immigrants and infringe on consumers' digital privacy. Those worries may not have abated, but that's not stopping technology leaders from heading to Trump Tower in New York to make their peace — or press their case — with Trump and his advisers. Waterloo region's tech sector takes wait-and-see approach to Trump Trump shifts stance on climate change The CEOs planning to attend included Apple's Tim Cook, Alphabet's Larry Page, Microsoft's Satya Nadella, Amazon's Jeff Bezos, Intel's Brian Krzanich, IBM's Ginni Rometty, Oracle's Safra Catz and Cisco Systems' Chuck Robbins. Facebook's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, will be on hand instead of its CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, who was one of many tech executives to express misgivings about Trump's pledge to deport millions of immigrants. Tech vs. Trump Meanwhile, Trump left Twitter off the invitation list for a meeting of technology company executives on Wednesday because it is too small, a spokesman for his transition team told Reuters. The omission of Twitter from the meeting surprised some in the industry given Trump's prolific use of the social media platform during his election campaign and the company's high profile in discussions over policy issues such as cyber security and the spread of violent online propaganda. "They weren't invited because they aren't big enough," the transition official said. It was expected to be a prickly meeting. No other industry was more open in its contempt for Trump during the campaign. In an open letter published in July, more than 140 technology executives, entrepreneurs and venture capitalists skewered Trump as a "disaster for innovation." And Trump's denigration of Mexicans, his pledge to deport millions of immigrants now living in the U.S. illegally, and his crude remarks about women were widely viewed as racist, authoritarian and sexist by an industry that prides itself on its tolerance. Trump, in turn, sometimes lashed out at the industry and its leaders. He lambasted Bezos for the campaign coverage by his newspaper, the Washington Post, and suggested that Amazon could face antitrust scrutiny if he was elected. Amazon founder and Washington Post owner Jeff Bezos has been a target of criticism from Trump. (J. Scott Applewhite/Associated Press) Trump also rebuked Cook for fighting a government order requiring Apple to unlock an encrypted iPhone used by a shooter in last year's attack in San Bernardino, Calif. And Trump's repeated screeds against immigrants raised fears that he might dismantle programs that have enabled tech companies to hire tens of thousands of foreign workers with the skills to write computer programs, design web pages and build mobile apps. Meanwhile, his chief strategist Steve Bannon in a 2015 satellite radio appearance with Trump seemed to express concern that "two-thirds or three-quarters of the CEOs in Silicon Valley are from South Asia or from Asia," which industry figures suggest is not nearly the case. The industry is also worried that Trump might try to undermine "net neutrality," a regulation requiring internet service providers to offer equal access to all online services. Trump's harsh characterization of the media as dishonest and unfair has raised other fears that he might even try to restrict free speech online. Tech figures wary Some in Silicon Valley think the industry's best move would be to keep its distance until Trump changes his tone. Former Google executive Chris Sacca, now a tech investor, argues that industry leaders should steer clear of the meeting altogether. Sitting down with the president-elect "would only make sense after Trump has given public assurances he won't encourage censorship, will stop exploiting fake news, will promote net neutrality, denounce hate crimes, and embrace science," Sacca said. "If and until then, tech figures who visit are being used to whitewash an authoritarian bully who threatens not just our industry, but our entire democracy." Most of the companies with executives attending Wednesday's meeting declined to comment ahead of the gathering. But Oracle's Catz said in a statement that she plans to tell Trump "that we are with him and are here to help in any way we can. If he can reform the tax code, reduce regulation, and negotiate better trade deals, the U.S. technology community will be stronger and more competitive than ever." Other tech institutions are also signalling an end to the animosity. Everything Trump has done so far suggests that he rewards loyalty and punishes disloyalty. The tech industry better have some pontoons ready - Larry Irving, former government affairs executive for Hewlett-Packard The Internet Association, a trade group whose members include Google, Facebook and Amazon, praised Trump in an open letter last month for his use of Twitter and other digital tools to help him get elected. The letter also appealed to Trump's emphasis on the economy, citing statistics estimating that the internet sector accounted for nearly $1 trillion of the country's gross domestic product. Some conservatives say they're actually worried that Trump might get too friendly with tech. Peter Flaherty, the president of the National Legal and Policy Center, charges that big technology companies exploited their close relationship with President Barack Obama "to feather their nests and push for policies that benefit them at the expense of the American worker." Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks said by email that the president-elect "looks forward to meeting with this important group of industry leaders and true innovators." Common ground: tax cuts The technology industry already supports one of Trump's ideas. He has promised to temporarily reduce the corporate tax on foreign profits from the current 35 per cent to 10 per cent to give U.S. companies an incentive to bring their overseas cash back home. It's a cut that Cook has been pushing Congress to make because Apple has $216 billion, or 91 per cent of its total cash, in overseas accounts. Other tech companies in line to benefit the most from a tax reduction include Microsoft, Cisco, Microsoft and Google's corporate parent, Alphabet. But Trump might not be doing many other favours for technology companies given his history of holding grudges against his opponents, said Larry Irving, a former government affairs executive for Hewlett-Packard who now runs a consulting firm. "Everything Trump has done so far suggests that he rewards loyalty and punishes disloyalty," Irving said. "The tech industry better have some pontoons ready." With files from Reuters and CBC News CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories What a Trump win means for U.S. health care Q&A David Suzuki on Donald Trump, climate change and the right to a healthy environment Trump, who once called global warming a hoax, meets with climate change activist Al Gore External Links Internet Association Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca