https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/mars-astronauts-risk-brain-damage-from-cosmic-rays-1.3061577
Mars astronauts risk brain damage from cosmic rays | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Mars astronauts risk brain damage from cosmic rays Social Sharing Technology & Science Mars astronauts risk brain damage from cosmic rays Humans who make the long voyage to Mars may end up with symptoms similar to dementia due to brain damage from their long-term exposure to the cosmic rays in space. Social Sharing Cosmic ray-like radiation causes dementia-like cognitive impairments in mice Thomson Reuters · Posted: May 05, 2015 11:29 AM ET | Last Updated: May 5, 2015 This computer-generated NASA view depicts part of Mars at the boundary between darkness and daylight. Researchers say long-term exposure to cosmic rays that permeate space may cause dementia-like cognitive impairments in astronauts during any future round-trip Mars trip. (JPL-Caltech/NASA/Reuters) comments It may not be space debris, errant asteroids, supply shortages, thruster malfunctions or even the malevolent aliens envisioned in so many Hollywood films that thwart astronauts on any mission to Mars. It may be the ubiquitous galactic cosmic rays. Researchers report that long-term exposure to these rays that permeate space may cause dementia-like cognitive impairments in astronauts during any future round-trip Mars journey, expected to take at least 2½ years. In a NASA-funded study, mice exposed to highly energetic charged particles like those in galactic cosmic rays experienced declines in cognition and changes in the structure and integrity of brain nerve cells and the synapses where nerve impulses are sent and received. Mars trip would expose astronauts to hefty dose of radiation Julie Payette, former Canadian astronaut, says Mars mission is going nowhere The irradiated particles in galactic cosmic rays, remnants of star explosions called supernovas, can penetrate spacecraft and astronauts' bodies. Earth itself is protected by its magnetosphere. University of California, Irvine radiation oncology professor Charles Limoli said "without a doubt" people would face the same issues as the mice. May impact mission-critical activities "Astronauts may incur cognitive impairments that lead to performance decrements, confusion, increased anxiety and longer-term problems with cognitive health," said Limoli, whose study appears in the journal Science Advances. Full paper in Science Advances This could compromise mission critical activities, especially if unanticipated situations arise during deep spaceflight, Limoli said. University of California, Irvine radiation oncology professor Charles Limoli said 'without a doubt' people would face the same issues as the mice, which showed brain damage after exposure to cosmic ray-like radiation. (Steve Zylius/University of California, Irvine) The mice, genetically altered to have green fluorescent neurons to help structural analysis, were exposed to the rays at the NASA Space Radiation Laboratory at the Brookhaven National Laboratory in New York and then analyzed six weeks later. In addition to the brain neuron and synapse changes, the mice exhibited decreased performance on learning and memory tests. They also lacked curiosity and were sluggish in experiments involving objects placed in a box with them. Similar to early Alzheimer's "Previous studies show synaptic impairment or loss of synapses is an early and invariant feature of Alzheimer's disease, and there is a strong correlation between the extent of synapse loss and the severity of dementia," said University of California, Irvine neuroscientist Vipan Kumar Parihar. NASA says it is developing the capabilities needed to send humans to an asteroid by 2025 and Mars in the 2030s. Orion spacecraft helps NASA prepare for future Mars journey Mars mission at Canadian space simulator gives taste of astronaut life NASA spokeswoman Stephanie Schierholz said a Mars mission would take at least 2½ years: a six-month journey there, a stay on Mars of at least 18 months, and a six-month flight back. Limoli said while Mars-bound astronauts cannot fully escape the rays, it may be possible to design spacecraft with areas of increased protective shielding. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Mars trip would expose travellers to hefty dose of radiation Orion spacecraft helps NASA prepare for future Mars journey Mars One plan has potentially deadly flaws, scientists say Mars mission at Canadian space simulator gives taste of astronaut life NASA studies inflatable heat shield for Mars landing Mars voyage in 2018 planned by U.S. non-profit External Links Full paper in Science Advances University of California Irvine news release Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca