https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/arctic-ocean-may-open-to-regular-shipping-by-2017-1.1178628
Arctic Ocean may open to regular shipping by 2017 | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Arctic Ocean may open to regular shipping by 2017 Social Sharing Technology & Science Arctic Ocean may open to regular shipping by 2017 A Canadian scientist claims the Arctic Ocean will be open for regular commercial shipping within the next five to 10 years, but changing ice conditions could bring new hazards to ships. Social Sharing Arctic coast taking on a mostly ice-free maritime climate, research shows Max Paris · CBC News · Posted: Apr 23, 2012 4:35 PM ET | Last Updated: April 24, 2012 A Canadian polar scientist who conducted research aboard the Canadian Coast Guard ship Amundsen is shown here in 2008. The Arctic Ocean could open for regular commercial shipping within the next five to 10 years, according to a Canadian polar scientist who conducted research for the International Polar Year Conference. But while that may sound like welcome news for intercontinental commerce, the changing ice conditions could bring new hazards to ships plying the polar seas. "Just because you're reducing the ice like that, one of the things we found was that you increase the speed at which this ice moves," said Dr. David Barber, the lead scientist on the Circumpolar Flaw Lead (CFL) System Study. Barber will present the results of his study on Wednesday at the International Polar Year Conference in Montreal. More than 2,000 scientists are at the week-long conference to discuss the findings of International Polar Year, which lasted from 2007 to 2009. Barber's study involved spending an entire winter aboard the Canadian Coast Guard's research icebreaker, Amundsen, in the open waters of the Beaufort Sea. CFL is an oceanographic term for the water between arctic land masses and mobile sea ice. "We wanted to do something really unique; something that no one else had ever done before. And so we looked at —scientifically — what are the big questions that we have?" Barber said. "And it always came back to this issue of: What happens with open water in the middle of winter?" The answers he came up with stunned him. Arctic coast becoming more like Pacific, Atlantic ones The water stays open longer, he said. Barber found unfrozen ocean in December and January. With the open water came intense storms. The snow from those storms insulated the multi-year sea ice, which meant that it didn't thicken up as much. In short, the Arctic coast is becoming more like the Pacific and Atlantic coasts. It is turning into a maritime climate that is stormy and largely ice-free during the winter. These changes mean there are now thousands of transits each year in the Arctic. The vast majority are made by ships sailing into and out of the polar ocean on specific journeys, according to Lawson Brigham, a polar shipping expert who teaches at the University of Alaska Fairbanks. "What we won't see — and what is covered in media a lot — is a new global shipping route," argues Brigham. He says there is still too much ice for that and the economics for a new route aren't there yet. For now, shipping traffic in the Arctic will be driven by two industries: resource extraction and tourism. Of course, the reduction of sea ice won't only affect ships. "To put it extremely simply, the two refrigerators are warming up. And so, if you change those it affects the climate. It affects the ocean currents. It affects species," said Peter Harrison, the chairman of the International Polar Year Conference. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories In Depth The costs of climate change Arctic Ocean leaking methane, scientists say External Links International Polar Year Conference International Polar Year Conference Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca