http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/boreal-forest-suffering-significant-losses-in-russia-canada-1.3019507
Boreal forest suffering 'significant' losses in Russia, Canada | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Boreal forest suffering 'significant' losses in Russia, Canada Social Sharing Technology & Science Boreal forest suffering 'significant' losses in Russia, Canada Russia and Canada led the world in the loss of tree cover in 2013, according to analysis of new satellite images by researchers and Global Forest Watch. Social Sharing Rise in forest fires in boreal region might be due to climate change, researcher says CBC News · Posted: Apr 02, 2015 12:31 PM ET | Last Updated: April 3, 2015 Unusually numerous fires contributed to the loss of boreal forest in both Russia and Canada in 2013, possibly due to climate change, according to research from the group Global Forest Watch. (USDA) comments Russia and Canada led the world in the loss of tree cover in 2013, according to analysis of new satellite images by researchers and Global Forest Watch. Some 43,000 square kilometres of northern boreal forest were ravaged in Russia, due mainly to fires, in 2013, while Canada shed another 24,500 square kilometres — amounting to a "very significant" loss in tree cover, according to Dr. Nigel Sizer of GFW, an interactive, online forest-monitoring and alert system based in Washington. The data comes from GFW, the University of Maryland and Google. Both Canada and Russia have seen unusually numerous forest fires in recent years, something Sizer says might be attributed to factors including climate change. Boreal forests ignored in climate change fight Save half of boreal forest from development, scientists urge 'Bird nursery' at risk unless half of Canada's boreal forest preserved "Climate change models predict as it gets drier and warmer … you're going to see more fires in the boreal region," Sizer told CBC News. Researchers say carbon stored in the soil and trees of boreal forest does much to prevent emission of greenhouse gases. "Oil and gas exploration, and logging operations are stretching further north into those forests as well, and those might be factors contributing to fires and directly to tree cover loss." The fires could also be part of a "long-term historical pattern," he said. Losses due to fire are temporary, though boreal forests recover from fires more slowly than other forested regions. Improvement in Indonesia The losses are part of an overall upward trend, with 180,000 square kilometres of tree cover around the world disappearing due to factors including fires, permanent deforestation and harvesting. "The trend has sort of levelled off. What we need to see is bringing that line down. Bringing it down will help make a greater contribution to reducing greenhouse gases." Boreal forest protection expanded in 2013 but concerns remain There was good news in Indonesia, however, where annual tree loss dipped in 2013 to its lowest point in almost a decade. Sizer says more research is needed, but possible reasons for the improvement include a drop in agricultural commodity prices — most notably the decline in palm oil — and that much of the country's most accessible forests have been already cleared. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Boreal forests ignored in climate change fight Save half of boreal forest from development, scientists urge 'Bird nursery' at risk unless half of Canada's boreal forest preserved Canada boreal forest protection expanded in 2013 but concerns remain Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca