http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/climate-change-claims-caribou-calves-study-1.741336
Climate change claims caribou calves: study | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Climate change claims caribou calves: study Social Sharing Technology & Science Climate change claims caribou calves: study Fewer caribou calves are being born and more of them are dying in West Greenland as a result of a warming climate, says a U.S. biologist who believes the mammal may serve as an indicator species for climate change. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: May 02, 2008 1:04 PM ET | Last Updated: May 2, 2008 Fewer caribou calves are being born and more of them are dying in West Greenland as a result of a warming climate, says a U.S. biologist who believes the mammal may serve as an indicator species for climate change. Penn State biology professor Eric Post based his conclusions on data collected since 1993 showing that the timing of peak food availability no longer corresponds to the timing of caribou births. He said the number of calves surviving into adulthood decreased by roughly 75 per cent. The study, which was conducted in collaboration with the University of Aarhus in Denmark, will be published in the July 12, 2008, issue of the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London. Post's team studied the timing of calving by caribou and the timing of the growth of plants they rely on for food, finding what scientists call a "trophic mismatch." That means caribou are now giving birth just after foraging plants have reached their peak productivity and have begun to decline in nutritional value. Throughout the long Arctic winter, when there is no plant growth, caribou dig through snow to find lichens. But come spring, they switch to grazing on the new growth of willows, sedges, and flowering tundra herbs. As the birth season approaches, they are cued by increasing day length to migrate into areas where this newly emergent food is plentiful. But this routine, which worked for millennia, is out of kilter. Now when pregnant females arrive at the calving grounds, they find that the plants on which they depend already peaked. Post said the plants, whose growth is tied to temperature and not daylight, are peaking much earlier in response to rising temperatures. "Spring temperatures at our study site in West Greenland have risen by more than 4 C over the past few years," Post said in a release. "As a result, the timing of plant growth has advanced, but calving has not." Trophic mismatches have been documented in birds. The most famous example is the study of Dutch birds and their caterpillar prey, highlighted in former U.S. vice-president Al Gore's film, An Inconvenient Truth. Until now, the mismatch hadn't been observed in terrestrial mammals. "The rapidity with which this mismatch has developed is eye-opening, to say the least," said Post. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories IN DEPTH: climate change Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca