https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/moon-crash-landing-didn-t-produce-water-vapour-1.181473
Moon crash-landing didn't produce water vapour | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Moon crash-landing didn't produce water vapour Social Sharing Technology & Science Moon crash-landing didn't produce water vapour Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 31, 1999 10:48 PM ET | Last Updated: November 11, 2000 The Lunar Prospector spacecraft crashed on the moon early Saturday morning, in a planned collision to find evidence of water beneath the moon's surface. NASA engineers following the mission and crash landing haven't found what they're looking for, however. The powerful telescopes on Earth failed to detect any dust cloud.. The 160-kilogram spacecraft smashed into a crater near the lunar south pole at 6,000 kilometers per hour. Scientists were hoping the plume of dust and vapour released by the force of the crash would show evidence of moon water. Some scientists believe there could be as much as 200 million tonnes of water mixed in with the soil near the moon's poles. Scientists say the lack of dust does not necessarily prove a lack of water on the moon. Telescopes with ultraviolet filters will continue to monitor the crash site, looking for evidence that water vapor was released by the impact. An analysis of the ultraviolet pictures could take weeks. Lunar Prospector was launched Jan. 6, 1998, and spent 18 months circling the moon. It completed more than 6,800 orbits, analyzing the moon's chemistry, gravity and magnetic fields. Some of that data indicated there may be water at the moon's poles. The search for water wasn't the only goal of Saturday's crash. The Lunar Prospector was also carrying a U.S. astronomer to his final resting place. A one-ounce vial of Eugene Shoemaker's cremated remains was on board. The highly respected astronomer had always wanted to be an astronaut but was disqualified from NASA's training program because he had Addison's disease. "Not going to the moon and banging on it with my own hammer has been the biggest disappointment in life," he once said. Instead of going up in space, Shoemaker taught geology to Apollo astronauts. After he died in a car crash in 1997, most of his cremated remains were sprinkled in a massive crater in Arizona that he had discovered was formed by a meteor crash about 50,000 years ago. But some of his ashes were set aside, so that NASA could eventually send at least part of him to the moon. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links NASA - Lunar Prospector Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca