https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/arctic-sea-ice-polluted-with-microplastics-1.2660021
Arctic sea ice polluted with microplastics | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Arctic sea ice polluted with microplastics Social Sharing Technology & Science Arctic sea ice polluted with microplastics Arctic sea ice has sopped up and stored large quantities of microplastic pollution from populated areas in the south, a new study has found. Social Sharing Pollutants may wind up in Arctic food chain as climate warms, ice melts CBC News · Posted: May 30, 2014 4:33 PM ET | Last Updated: May 30, 2014 When the melted ice was filtered, the filter paper trapped not just sand and diatoms, but also a variety of brightly coloured particles. ( Y.-Q. Wong and A. Khitun/Dartmouth College) comments Arctic sea ice has sopped up and stored large quantities of microplastic pollution from populated areas in the south, a new study has found. Microplastics are tiny pieces of plastic from microscopic to fingernail-sized that have been found polluting oceans and lakes around the world over the past decade, but not so far north as the Arctic Ocean. Scientists are concerned about them because they tend to suck up and concentrate other pollutants in the environment, which enter the food chain when animals swallow microplastics. While much of the sea ice in the past has stayed frozen for many years, locking up pollutants and sediments trapped in them, more and more of that 'multi-year' ice is melting as the Arctic warms as a result of climate change. (Canadian Press) Rachel Obbard, a materials scientist at Dartmouth College in New Hamphire, discovered that Arctic sea ice was contaminated with microplastics by accident when she melted the ice in order to count diatoms – microscopic algae that live under the ice. "I was really shocked and saddened," she told CBC's Quirks & Quarks in an interview that airs Saturday. "I guess I, like most people, still consider the Arctic to be a pristine and remote area and clearly, our pollution has reached even it." Rachel Obbard talks to Quirks & Quarks, May 31 at noon on CBC Radio One When the melted ice was filtered, the filter paper trapped not just sand and diatoms, but also a variety of brightly coloured particles. "I saw a lot of small threads, some solid chunks in oranges and reds, and a bunch of small blue nodules," Obbard recalled. Microplastics were found in all ice cores taken from four different locations in the Arctic that were far apart, suggesting that the microplastic contamination is widespread. Hundreds of pieces per cubic metre of ice Obbard estimated that there were between 38 and several hundred pieces of microplastic per cubic metre of sea ice. A chemical analysis found the particles included a variety of different plastics, including polyethylene, polycarbonate and rayon. The findings were published in the peer-reviewed open access scientific journal Earth's Future. Read the full paper here Obbard suspects they were carried into the Arctic by currents from populated areas in the south. She added that particles, including microplastics, tend to be concentrated by ice as it freezes. While much of the sea ice in the past has stayed frozen for many years, locking up pollutants and sediments trapped in them, more and more of that "multi-year" ice is melting as the Arctic warms as a result of climate change. "This suggests that there will be microplastic particles dumped back into the Arctic Ocean that have been entrapped in ice for several years," Obbard said. She is now surveying the Arctic ice to find out how widespread the microplastic pollution is and what types of ice tend to concentrate it. She hopes to be able to identify the source of some of the microplastics, and also to find out how they are affecting Arctic organisms. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Rachel Obbard talks to Quirks & Quarks on May 31 at noon on CBC Radio One Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370 search shows extent of ocean trash B.C. waters threatened by microplastic pollution Great Lakes threatened by microplastics Facial scrubs polluting Great Lakes with plastic External Links Scientific paper in Earth's Future Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca