https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/meat-eating-dino-fossils-found-in-argentina-1.553301
Meat-eating dino fossils found in Argentina | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Meat-eating dino fossils found in Argentina Social Sharing Technology & Science Meat-eating dino fossils found in Argentina New species of dinosaur related to Velociraptor discovered. Finding suggests the group of dinos. roamed across North and South America. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Feb 23, 2005 8:22 PM ET | Last Updated: February 24, 2005 Ferocious carnivores related to the Velociraptors immortalized in the movie Jurassic Park may have roamed both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres, researchers say. Paleontologists Fernando Novas and Diego Pol describe a new species of dinosaur in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. The meat-eater, called Neuquenraptor argentinus, was about two metres long and lived in South America. The name means robber of the Neuquen province of northeast Patagonia. The size and shape of N. argentinus resembles Velociraptor mongoliensis, but a toe bone suggests the Argentine dino may have been a better runner. "The new discovery demonstrates that Cretaceous theropod faunas from the southern continents shared greater similarity with those of the northern landmasses than previously thought," the pair wrote. Both deinonychosaurs were small, lightly built dinosaurs with deadly teeth and a distinctive sickle-shaped claw suited to disembowelling larger dinosaurs. The group of theropod dinosaurs are thought to be the ones most closely related to birds. Novas, from the Argentine Museum of Natural Sciences in Buenos Aires, said the South American dino lived about 80 million years ago, a time when the two continents had long separated. The findings therefore suggest deinonychosaurs roamed far and wide during the Cretaceous period. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Theropod dinosaurs: going south, Nature Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca