https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/extinct-tortoise-likely-still-exists-scientists-say-1.1176556
'Extinct' tortoise likely still exists, scientists say | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news 'Extinct' tortoise likely still exists, scientists say Social Sharing Technology & Science 'Extinct' tortoise likely still exists, scientists say Giant tortoises carrying DNA from a species believed extinct for 150 years are living in a remote part of the Galapagos Islands, raising hopes the original species is alive. Social Sharing Inspired Charles Darwin's idea of evolution by natural selection CBC News · Posted: Jan 09, 2012 1:18 PM ET | Last Updated: January 9, 2012 This tortoise is a hybrid of the species G. Becky and C. elephantopus, a species native to Floreana Island 300 kilometres away and thought to be extinct. Genetic analysis of tortoise population on Isabela Island suggests purebred individuals of C. elephantopus must still be alive on Isabela. (Yale University) Dozens of giant tortoises belonging to a species believed extinct for 150 years may be living in a remote part of the Galapagos Islands, scientists believe. Researchers at Yale University came to the conclusion based on the "genetic footprints" of the long-lost species Chelonoidis elephantopus found in the DNA of their hybrid sons and daughters. Their analysis was published Monday in the journal Current Biology. "To our knowledge, this is the first report of the rediscovery of a species by way of tracking the genetic footprints left in the genomes of its hybrid offspring," said co-researcher Ryan Garrick, formerly of Yale University and currently a professor at the University of Mississipi. "These findings breathe new life into the conservation prospects for members of this flagship group." The tortoises — which live for more than 100 years in the wild, weigh nearly 408 kilograms and grow to nearly two metres in length — are famous for inspiring Charles Darwin's ideas about evolution by natural selection. The species was originally found only on Floreana Island and presumed extinct soon after Darwin's historic voyage to the Galapagos in 1835. The tortoises disappeared on Floreana because of hunting by whalers and workers at a heating oil factory established on the island. In 2008, a team of Yale researchers took blood samples from more than 1,600 tortoises living on Volcano Wolf on the northern tip of Isabela Island — more than 300 kilometres from Floreana. After comparing the samples to a genetic database of living and extinct tortoise species, they detected the genetic signatures of C. elephantopus in 84 Volcano Wolf tortoises, meaning one of their parents was a purebred member of the missing species. In 30 cases, breeding had taken place in the last 15 years, and since the lifespan of tortoises can exceed 100 years, there is a high probability that many of the purebreds are still alive, researchers said. "If we can find these individuals, we can restore them to their island of origin," where they would play a vital role in maintaining the ecological integrity of the area, said co-researcher Gisella Caccone of Yale University. And even if purebred members of the species are never found, their direct descendants will be vital to its conservation, Garrick said. "Hybridization is considered largely deleterious to biodiversity conservation," Garrick said. "But in this case, hybrids may provide opportunities to resuscitate an 'extinct' species through intensive targeted breeding efforts." Researchers don't think the tortoises got to Volcano Wolf on their own, but were likely transported there from Floreana as food and then either thrown overboard by whalers or left on the shores of Isabela. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca