https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/astronaut-chris-hadfield-crew-discuss-space-mission-1.1130029
Astronaut Chris Hadfield, crew discuss space mission | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Astronaut Chris Hadfield, crew discuss space mission Social Sharing Technology & Science Astronaut Chris Hadfield, crew discuss space mission Canadian astronaut Chris Hadfield and the two other crew members who will be travelling with him to the International Space Station in December briefed journalists and the public on their upcoming mission Thursday. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Sep 13, 2012 2:29 PM ET | Last Updated: September 14, 2012 Astronaut Chris Hadfield during a 2010 press conference announcing that he will take command of the International Space Station in March 2013. (Graham Hughes/Canadian Press) Canadian astronaut Chris Hadfield and the two other crew members who will be travelling with him to the International Space Station (ISS) in December briefed journalists and the public on their upcoming mission Thursday. 'I'm really lucky to be flying with these gentlemen," Hadfield said of Russian space agency commander Roman Romanenko and NASA astronaut Tom Marshburn. The three astronauts answered journalists' questions about how they trained for the mission and what kind of experiments they will be doing at the station when they get there at a press conference at NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston. The astronauts will blast off into space aboard a Soyuz TMA-07M spacecraft on Dec. 5 from Kazakhstan. They will join NASA astronaut Kevin Ford and Russian cosmonauts Evgeny Tarelkin and Oleg Novitskiy at the station. Together, the six crew members make up NASA's Expeditions 34 and 35. "I've flown in space for 20 days, and I've been an astronaut for 20 years, so I'm really looking forward to this space flight," Hadfield said. In March 2013, Ford, Novitskiy and Tarelkin will depart the ISS, and Hadfield will take command, becoming its first Canadian commander. Astronauts to test medical device During his stay at ISS, Hadfield will take at least one spacewalk and will also help operate the Canadarm 2 in capturing one of the U.S. commercial cargo capsules that is expected to supply the station. Hadfield and crew will also conduct an experiment to test how microgravity affects surface acting agents such as soap, which reduce the surface tension of water. Hadfield and his crew will be testing the Microflow device during their mission to the International Space Station. The device uses fibre-optic technology to detect cells in small quantities of liquid and has the potential to provide near real-time medical diagnoses for astronauts in space. (INO) They will also be testing a device provided by the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) called Microflow. The portable device is a miniature version of a flow cytometer, which enables doctors and scientists to analyse the physical and chemical properties of molecules or cells in blood and other bodily fluids. According to the CSA, the device, which relies on laser and fibre-optic technology, could eventually be used as a medical tool at the station to provide real-time analysis of everything from infections, stress, blood cells, cancer markers and could even be used to test food-quality levels on Earth. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Astronaut Chris Hadfield plans some guitar jams in space Chris Hadfield readies to command space station Astronaut Hadfield recalls Neil Armstrong's inspiration External Links NASA TV on YouTube NASA TV on YouTube Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca