https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/new-research-opens-door-to-bendable-electronics-1.846897
New research opens door to bendable electronics | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news New research opens door to bendable electronics Social Sharing Technology & Science New research opens door to bendable electronics South Korean researchers have found a new way to make flexible, stretchable electrodes that could lead to electronics that fold or could be worn. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jan 14, 2009 3:41 PM ET | Last Updated: January 14, 2009 Stretchable graphene electrode patterns transferred onto a silicon-based polymer is shown. ((Photo courtesy of Ji Hye Hong)) South Korean researchers have found a new way to make flexible, stretchable electrodes that could lead to electronics that fold or could be worn. The research, published in the online edition of Nature, centres on graphene, a layer of carbon atoms arranged in a honeycomb orientation. Graphene's simple structure makes it an excellent conductor, and it is highly flexible. Some experts have said graphene could supplant silicon as the material of choice for electronics. Current methods allow only for making small, micrometre-sized quantities of the material. Attempts to produce graphene in larger quantities have resulted in a significant loss of conductivity. But researchers at the Sungkyunkwan University in Suwon, South Korea, were able to make large centimetre-scale quantities of graphene that retains its electronic qualities using hydrocarbons. They broke down hydrocarbons over a plate of heated nickel to form graphene, which they cooled rapidly to produce thin layers. Using this technique, Byung Hee Hong and his colleagues created a minutely fine layer of graphene shaped into a patterned electrode. They then etched the graphene layer onto a transparent, flexible polymer. The malleable and transparent nature of the graphene-etched polymer could potentially result in foldable displays, flexible solar panels and a number of other electronics applications. But Hong and his colleagues still have to work out some kinks in the new method — notably, the graphene doesn't always cover the entire surface onto which it is being copied. Nature quoted an eminent graphene researcher as saying the practical use of graphene to make bendable electronics is still a long-term prospect. Andre Giem, of the University of Manchester, told Nature that Kim's technique should provide the best template for creating high-quality graphene films on a large scale in the future. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca