https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/space-station-crew-to-mark-50-years-of-astronauts-1.1040541
Space station crew to mark 50 years of astronauts | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Space station crew to mark 50 years of astronauts Social Sharing Technology & Science Space station crew to mark 50 years of astronauts The six humans circling the Earth said Monday they will join in the celebrations of two prominent space anniversaries from the best vantage point of all — orbit. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Apr 11, 2011 2:03 PM ET | Last Updated: April 11, 2011 The six humans circling the Earth said Monday they will join in the celebrations of two prominent space anniversaries from the best vantage point of all — orbit. Tuesday marks the 50th anniversary of man's first journey into space and the 30th anniversary of the first space shuttle launch. "We're going to spend the day tomorrow recognizing it in probably the best place you possibly can, that's on orbit and looking at our beautiful Earth," American astronaut Ronald Garan Jr. said in an interview with The Associated Press. He arrived at the International Space Station last week. The space station's Russian commander, Dmitry Kondratyev, said the human dream of flying to the stars came true with Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin's flight on April 12, 1961. Twenty-three days later, American Alan Shepard became the second man in space. The space station astronauts will get Tuesday off as a special holiday. They will hold a news conference and link up with celebrations in Moscow. ((NASA)) "Fifty years is a short period of time in history, but look at that leap from a small spacecraft to the huge International Space Station," Kondratyev told the AP. "We hope that during the next 50 years, another leap that is not less than has been done, will be done." As for the shuttle anniversary, Garan said Columbia's launch on April 12, 1981, inspired him to become an astronaut. He yearned to be an astronaut as a young child, but the dream went away until Columbia blasted off on the first shuttle flight. The very next day, he went to his college advisers and signed up for a heavy load of math and science courses. "That dream was reawakened in me," Garan said. "For me, that's a pretty strong evidence of the importance of the space program, toward education and inspiring young people to study math and science." As a two-time passenger aboard Columbia — which was destroyed during re-entry in 2003 — space station resident Catherine Coleman said it's a special day for her as well. Flying in space is what people are supposed to do, she noted. "We're leaving the planet. We're living outside our Earth's atmosphere," she said. As part of the shuttle anniversary, NASA Administrator Charles Bolden Jr. will take part in a ceremony at Kennedy Space Center in Florida. He'll announce which museums will win the soon-to-be-retired shuttles for display. Discovery will go to the Smithsonian Institution. But Endeavour and Atlantis are up for grabs, as is Enterprise, the shuttle prototype on exhibit at the Smithsonian that will be replaced by Discovery. Twenty-one museums and science and visitor centres are in hot competition. The space station crew declined to pick a favourite. "I grew up all over the country," Coleman told the AP, "and so I actually have ties, I think, to every one of the cities that are targeted. ... I'm trying to be impartial." Only two shuttle missions remain, both to the space station. Endeavour is due to blast off April 29, and Atlantis on June 28. Discovery, the oldest surviving shuttle, ended its flying career last month. The space station astronauts will get Tuesday off as a special holiday. They will hold a news conference and link up with celebrations in Moscow, then enjoy a celebratory feast Tuesday evening. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories QUIRKS BLOG: 50 years of humans in space: Where are we now? Russian capsule arrives at space station External Links NASA: Yuri Gagarin - 50 years later Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca