https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/wild-bees-and-flowers-both-declining-survey-finds-1.610453
Wild bees and flowers both declining, survey finds | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Wild bees and flowers both declining, survey finds Social Sharing Technology & Science Wild bees and flowers both declining, survey finds The diversity of bees and the flowers they pollinate have both declined significantly in Britain and the Netherlands over the last 25 years, researchers have found. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 20, 2006 7:27 PM ET | Last Updated: July 21, 2006 The diversity of bees and the flowers they pollinate have both declined significantly in Britain and the Netherlands over the last 25 years, researchers have found. "We were shocked by the decline in plants as well as bees," the study's lead author, Koos Biesmeijer of the University of Leeds, said in a statement. "If this pattern is replicated elsewhere, the 'pollinator services' we take for granted could be at risk. And with it the future for the plants we enjoy in our countryside." The pollinators are essential for the reproduction of many wild flowers and crops. While previous studies looked at only a few sites, Biesmeijer's team of professionals and volunteers compared records forhundreds of sites from before and after 1980. Particular bees for particular flowers Loss of bee diversity might not be a problem if a single species of bee could pollinate every flower species, but that's not the case, the researchers report in Friday's issue of the journal Science. Overall, generalist pollinators are replacing a larger number of rarer, specialist pollinators. "In Britain, pollinator species that were relatively rare in the past have tended to become rarer still, while the commoner species have become even more plentiful," said Stuart Roberts of the University of Reading. "Even in insects, the rich get richer and the poor get poorer." The scientists don't know if it's the bees or flowers that are disappearing first, but the declines parallel each other. In Britain, there were declines in 70 per cent of the wildflowers that need insects for pollination, while wind-pollinated or self-pollinated plants stayed the same or increased. The Netherlands showed a decline in plants that require bees for pollination, but not plants that can turn to other insect pollinators. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Pollination in peril, Science Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca