http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/el-nino-weather-system-appears-for-1st-time-since-2010-1.3070776
El Nino weather system appears for 1st time since 2010 | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news El Nino weather system appears for 1st time since 2010 Social Sharing Technology & Science El Nino weather system appears for 1st time since 2010 The weather-warping phenomenon known as El Nino is back for the first time in five years. Social Sharing Warmer water in Pacific could lead to milder winter in Canada CBC News · Posted: May 12, 2015 10:57 AM ET | Last Updated: May 12, 2015 A frog sits on ground cracked by drought in the Las Canoas Lake in Nicaragua in 2010. The lack of rain was blamed on El Nino. (Oswaldo Rivas/Reuters) comments El Nino, a temperature anomaly in the Pacific Ocean that can cause unusual weather patterns around the world, is back. Australia's Bureau of Meteorology announced today that El Nino thresholds have been reached in the tropical Pacific from the first time since March 2010. El Nino is the name given to unusually warm temperatures in the equatorial Pacific that can cause changes to wind, rainfall and temperature patterns in other parts of the globe. For example, in Canada, an El Nino that lasts through the winter months generally leads to warmer winters from British Columbia to central Quebec and drier conditions inland. El Nino, La Nina and weather woes Extreme El Nino weather to double in frequency, study says Australia's Bureau of Meteorology isn't the only organization confirming the arrival of El Nino — the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration had announced El Nino's arrival back in March, but said it was weak and unlikely to have major effects on weather patterns. An update in April said El Nino had strengthened slightly over the course of March. As of early May, "it's getting close to what we would term moderate," said Mike Halpert, deputy director for NOAA's climate prediction centre, in an interview with CBC News. He added that the two organizations have slightly different thresholds for El Nino — Australia's is 0.3 degrees higher. El Nino typically leads to heavy rainfall on the U.S. Gulf Coast and western North America. But NOAA said this year's El Nino is likely too late and too weak to ease the drought in California. NOAA predicted a 70 per cent chance that El Nino conditions would last through summer and a 60 per cent chance they'd continue through fall. It is set to give another update Thursday. Greatest effect in winter The Australia Bureau of Meteorology predicts this El Nino will strengthen during winter. Students from the University of Texas at El Paso make their way to school in the rain. An El Nino weather pattern is expected to bring plentiful rain to the U.S. Gulf Coast. (Victor Calzada/The El Paso Times/Associated Press) However, as of the beginning of April, NOAA research scientist Emily Becker said in a blog post that it was way too early to know if this El Nino will be strong "or even if El Nino will continue into this coming winter — the time of year when [it] exerts its greatest influence on global precipitation and temperature patterns." Based on climate models, meteorologists had been expecting an El Nino for much of last year, but it never arrived. According to Environment Canada, El Nino events generally appear every two to seven years and last 12 to 18 months, although one El Nino in the early 1990s lasted four years. The last El Nino in 2009-10 was a strong one, while the previous one, in 2006-07, was weak to moderate, NOAA says. Some of the weather patterns linked to El Nino include heavy rainfall in the central Pacific and western North America and reduced rainfall over Indonesia. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories El Nino, La Nina and weather woes Extreme El Nino weather to double in frequency, study says External Links Environment Canada on El Nino and El Nina Australia Bureau of Meteorology El Nino announcement NOAA's March announcement of El Nino's arrival NOAA April update on El Nino Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca