https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/no-big-flash-from-nasa-s-moon-crash-1.788343
No big flash from NASA's moon crash | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news No big flash from NASA's moon crash Social Sharing Technology & Science No big flash from NASA's moon crash NASA crashed a rocket and a lunar probe into the moon Friday morning in the hopes of finding water hidden beneath the rocky surface. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Oct 09, 2009 7:47 AM ET | Last Updated: October 10, 2009 NASA crashed a rocket and a lunar probe into the moon Friday morning in the hopes of finding water hidden beneath the rocky surface. This image from the Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite was taken shortly after the Centaur rocket crashed into the moon. ((NASA/Associated Press)) However, the blasts from the impacts weren't picked up by NASA's cameras as expected. Officials with NASA said the probe's cameras were working, but live images didn't appear on the agency's website. At a news conference Friday morning, NASA scientists showed an enlarged photo taken from the Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite (LCROSS). "There was an impact. We saw the impact. We saw the crater," said Anthony Colaprete of the LCROSS science team. NASA said the impact was visible from a near-infrared camera. "The flash is several pixels across," said Colaprete. Colaprete said that LCROSS was successful in collecting its data, but wouldn't comment on any results. Jennifer Heldmann, another member of the LCROSS science team, said their instruments analyzing the light spectrum from the impact found a sodium flash. The researchers said it was an interesting observation, but they weren't sure yet what it means. "We saw variations in the spectra, so we saw something," said Colaprete. Heat signature confirmed "I'm not going to say anything about water or no water," said Colaprete. "We have the data we need to address the questions we set out to address." The mid-infrared camera on LCROSS detected a sodium flash, the white dot at the centre of these images, when its spent rocket crashed into the moon. ((NASA) ) Colaprete said he couldn't tell whether there was a plume of dust based on the scientists' preliminary look at the data. "We haven't been able to see it clearly in our image data yet." The first impact happened at 7:33 a.m. ET, when a rocket that had carried a lunar probe hit the crater Cabeus, creating a small crater of its own. The impact was expected to send debris about 10 kilometres high. The LCROSS satellite observed the impact, as did the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter, the Hubble Space Telescope and three other Earth-orbiting satellites, and telescopes in the western U.S. and Hawaii. The LCROSS probe followed the rocket about two minutes later, travelling through the cloud of debris created by the rocket impact to scour for ice before plunging into the crater itself. Members of the LCROSS science team confirmed a heat signature of the impact, but it didn't seem to register on the video on NASA TV. The rocket shell hit the moon inside a permanently shadowed crater, so it's possible the plume of dust created by the impact didn't reach high enough to reflect light from the sun. Disappointment for stargazers The lack of a visible flash was a disappointment for stargazers who gathered across North America to watch the crash. On its website, NASA listed observatories in the U.S. and Canada where people could watch the end of the LCROSS mission. People who got up before dawn to watch the impact at Los Angeles' Griffith Observatory threw confused looks at each other instead. Telescope demonstrator Jim Mahon called the lunar show "anticlimactic." "I was hoping we'd see a flash or a flare," Mahon told The Associated Press. The science team said LCROSS collected and transmitted about four minutes of data from the probe's descent and they are making their preliminary assessment of the satellite's readings. NASA is hoping to confirm whether water is hidden beneath the surface of the moon. A significant amount of water on the moon would be a valuable resource for future manned lunar missions. With files from The Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Water traces found in moon's dirt NASA plans satellite crash on moon Quirks & Quarks: Moon musings: No green cheese, but maybe ice cream External Links LCROSS, on NASA.gov Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca