https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/sun-helps-orient-migrating-monarch-butterflies-study-1.345247
Sun helps orient migrating monarch butterflies: study | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Sun helps orient migrating monarch butterflies: study Social Sharing Technology & Science Sun helps orient migrating monarch butterflies: study Scientists used a flight simulator to figure out how butterflies can fly thousands of kilometres without getting lost. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 18, 2002 12:40 PM ET | Last Updated: July 18, 2002 A flight simulator has helped scientists crack the secret of how monarch butterflies can fly thousands of kilometres every fall without getting lost. To figure it out, the researchers built a simulator that allowed butterflies to fly in any direction they chose while tethered to a device. The device recorded an insect's direction about five times a second as it flew in loops and twists. When Queen's University neurobiologist Barrie Frost and his colleagues reconstructed the butterflies' migration path, they found the insects used a sun compass to get their bearings. The butterflies would orient themselves to the sun. For example, at 9:00 a.m., the butterflies would face south so the sun is 45 degrees to their left. "We were just amazed with the precision," Frost told CBC Radio's As It Happens. Cloud-proof compass The researchers shifted the internal clock in some of the butterflies by turning the lights on at midnight. The butterflies responded by going off course by 90 degrees. "Control monarchs on local time fly approximately southwest, those 6-h time-advanced fly southeast, and 6-h time-delayed butterflies fly in northwesterly directions," the researchers wrote. Frost also simulated what happens on cloudy days. Humans can't see the patches of polarized light in the sky, but insects can. By using sheets of polarized material like that found in sunglasses, the researchers found the butterflies oriented in the direction of the filter. They think even on cloudy days, enough polarized light comes through the clouds for the butterflies to orient themselves. But the experiment didn't offer any evidence that butterflies use a magnetic compass. When a magnetic field was rotated in the apparatus, the butterflies did not change direction. The study appears online in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences: abstract of study Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca