http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/vanishing-arctic-gulls-puzzle-biologists-1.367280
Vanishing Arctic gulls puzzle biologists | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Vanishing Arctic gulls puzzle biologists Social Sharing Technology & Science Vanishing Arctic gulls puzzle biologists Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Aug 01, 2003 4:17 PM ET | Last Updated: August 1, 2003 Biologists say they don't know what's happened to the population of ivory gulls in the eastern Arctic. The all-white gulls migrate north in the summer, nesting on islands like Ellesmere and Devon. But Inuit in High Arctic communities say they're seeing fewer of the birds, and surveys by the Canadian Wildlife Service show the birds' population has dropped. Karel Allard, a Ph.D. student at the University of New Brunswick, has been working with the Canadian Wildlife Service on Devon Island this summer. He says this year and last, biologists conducted surveys of known ivory gull colonies. "They visited many places where there had been hundreds of breeding birds," he says. "In many cases these sites no longer had any birds at all." Researchers say they don't know why the birds have disappeared. Mark Mallory, a seabird biologist with the Canadian Wildlife Service in Nunavut, says Inuit don't hunt the gulls. Mallory says the decrease could be due to contaminants, climate change or overhunting on their wintering grounds down south and in Greenland. "We're pretty confident that it's not something to do with the breeding grounds, because they're doesn't seem to be any obvious signs of change at the colonies up here," he says. "Even though the ice is changing in the Arctic, there's still lots of ice around the communities where they've been seen for years and years, and they're just not being seen anymore." Mallory does say the crash in the birds' population is significant. He says ivory gulls could end up on the list of species at risk in Canada. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links NWT Ivory Gull: Northwest Territories Dept. of Resources, Wildlife and Economic Development Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca