http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/tiny-animals-survive-exposure-to-outer-space-scientists-say-1.720729
Tiny animals survive exposure to outer space, scientists say | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Tiny animals survive exposure to outer space, scientists say Social Sharing Technology & Science Tiny animals survive exposure to outer space, scientists say Swedish and German scientists have found at least one animal that can survive in outer space: tiny invertebrates called tardigrades, commonly called water-bears, which are found on wet lichens and mosses. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Sep 08, 2008 1:59 PM ET | Last Updated: September 8, 2008 For humans, outer space has a host of unpleasant environmental issues that make a spacesuit a must: extreme cold, exposure to lethal doses of cosmic radiation and a complete lack of oxygen. Swedish and German scientists have found at least one animal, however, that can survive in outer space: tiny invertebrates called tardigrades, commonly called "water-bears" that are found on wet lichens and mosses. The creatures were flown aboard the European Space Agency's FOTON-M3 spacecraft in September 2007, according to a report on the experiment to be published in Tuesday's edition of Current Biology. The craft travelled in a low-Earth orbit. "Our results... represent the first record of an animal surviving simultaneous exposure to space vacuum and solar/galactic radiation," the authors wrote. Previously, only lichens and bacteria had been reported to survive the combined exposure to the vacuum of space and both solar and galactic radiation. Tardigrades, which range in size from 0.1 to 1.5 mm, had already proved their resiliency in previous experiments, showing an ability to survive both an almost total loss of water and prolonged exposure to radiation. Flying in outer space provided yet another chance to test their mettle. The tardigrades were all exposed to the vacuum of space and received different levels of exposure to solar radiation. The vacuum of space had little impact on the tardigrades' survival and ability to reproduce, the scientists reported. Increasing exposure to solar radiation, on the other hand, led to a higher mortality rate. But a few of one species of tardigrade, Milnesium tardigradum, did manage to survive both the vacuum and extreme levels of solar radiation. This was surprising to the authors, given that solar radiation in outer space is more than 1,000 times higher than on the surface of the Earth, and that the high-energy particles that make up UV rays are capable of damaging a cell's genetic material. "How these animals were capable of reviving their body... remains a mystery," the authors wrote, though they suggest the ability to survive both desiccation and radiation may be linked to a more efficient system of repairing DNA. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Space worms land in B.C., after hopping shuttle External Links Current Biology Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca