http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/dinosaur-sounds-honk-growl-torah-kachur-1.3803212
Dinosaurs likely didn't roar, new research suggests | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Dinosaurs likely didn't roar, new research suggests Social Sharing Technology & Science·Q&A Dinosaurs likely didn't roar, new research suggests New research is bringing us closer to understanding what kind of noises dinosaurs made when they roamed the Earth — and it's nothing like what Hollywood would have you believe. Social Sharing Scientists say they might have growled like a crocodile or honked like a goose Torah Kachur · for CBC News · Posted: Oct 13, 2016 4:26 PM ET | Last Updated: October 17, 2016 While most of us imagine dinosaurs roaring like in Jurassic World, new research involving a bird that lived 66 million years ago suggests a very different sound. (Amblin Entertainment/The Associated Press) What sound did a dinosaur make? While you might imagine them screeching or roaring like they did in the Jurassic Park movies, scientists haven't been able to figure out the noises they actually made when they roamed the Earth. But new research is bringing us closer to understanding how they might have sounded. As CBC Radio science columnist Torah Kachur explains, a study published in the journal Nature looks back to the age of dinosaurs to offer some insight into the evolution of the voice box. If not terrifying roars, then what? Think more along the lines of a crocodile or a goose. Birds and crocodile-like reptiles are the closest living descendants we have to dinosaurs. A 2009 paper published in the journal Historical Biology looked at the different ways those animals make sound. It pointed out that crocodiles — and mammals, for that matter — make sound through a vocal organ called a larynx, while birds use a syrinx. Dinosaurs didn't roar, they cooed What is a syrinx? It's a kind of voice box, but it's different from the larynx, which is found in many animals, including crocodiles and humans. "Our voice box, just to kind of contextualize it, is made up of cartilaginous support structures from which there are super-squishy soft tissues, what we call vocal folds, that vibrate and produce sound," lead author Julia Clarke, a paleontologist at the University of Texas at Austin, said. Julia Clarke is a professor and fellow in in vertebrate paleontology at the University of Texas at Austin. (juliaclarke-paleolab.com) If we want a sense of what that would sound like, we can look to the closest living descendents of the dinosaurs. "Birds have essentially the same thing, in that they have cartilaginous support structures and these super-squishy vocal folds. But where their voice box is located is deep in the chest where the windpipe branches into two tubes, if you will, that go to the right and left lung." How dinosaurs shrank into birds How do we know what dinosaurs sounded like? An artist's rendition of Vegavis iaai, an ancestor of the a duck and goose that lived during the time of the dinosaurs. (Dinopedia.wikia.com) That's where the latest research comes in. The team behind it found a fossil back in 1992 in Antarctica of Vegavis iaai, a duck and goose ancestor that lived 66 million years ago, during the time of the dinosaurs. In 2013, they discovered this fossil has the oldest known representation of a voice box ever discovered. From there, the team figured what sound its anatomy could make. "The evolutionary relationships of the new species [V. iaai] and the syrinx remains themselves [told us] that this animal would have made sounds most similar to those of living ducks and geese," she said. It's a combination of evolutionary history and anatomy that allows the researchers to determine just what the avian dinosaurs sounded like. What does this say about the evolution of animal sounds? There are quite a few implications from this paper. One is that birds and non-birds evolved similar strategies to make sound, but birds had a head start of a few million years, if not more. Second, this fossil does not represent an early stage in evolution of vocalization. In fact, the syrinx discovered was quite sophisticated in terms of anatomy, which suggests some of the more primitive iterations of it still remain to be discovered. And finally, it tells us the sounds that dinosaurs — especially the carnivorous ones — made were probably very different than most carnivores today. Our present-day predators, like lions or bears, roar when they attack, so we assume all predators did. But we should be modelling our view of dinosaurs on crocodiles and birds — creatures that mostly use sound to call mates or defend territory. It's more about communication within species. This research, as well as the whole field of dinosaur sound, is moving towards a very different view than we may have had in our imaginations. About the Author Torah Kachur Science Columnist Torah Kachur is the syndicated science columnist for CBC Radio One. Torah received her PhD in molecular genetics from the University of Alberta and now teaches at the University of Alberta and MacEwan University. She's the co-creator of scienceinseconds.com. Science in Seconds CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Dinosaurs didn't roar. They cooed, according to scientists Tyrannosaurus rex would have had lips, Toronto paleontologist says Research could reveal colour of dinosaur skin Chicken embryos grown with dinosaur-like lower legs How dinosaurs shrank into birds External Links Nature: Ancient avian aria from Antarctica Historical Biology: Voices of the past: a review of Paleozoic and Mesozoic animal sounds Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca