https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/dinosaur-eggs-blood-1.3268687
Fossil eggs reveal how warm blooded dinosaurs were | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Fossil eggs reveal how warm blooded dinosaurs were Social Sharing Technology & Science Fossil eggs reveal how warm blooded dinosaurs were Scientists have used the fossilized eggshells of dinosaurs to estimate their body temperatures — and have revealed some surprises. Social Sharing Titanosaurs were warm blooded, but bird-like oviraptors weren't that warm, study finds CBC News · Posted: Oct 13, 2015 12:53 PM ET | Last Updated: October 13, 2015 Bird-like oviraptors from Mongolia, pictured in an artists' conception, had body temperatures that averaged 31.9 C, much lower than modern birds' average of 36 to 43 C. ( Doyle Trankina and Gerald Grellet-Tinner) comments Scientists have used the fossilized eggshells of dinosaurs to estimate their body temperatures — and have revealed some surprises. Researchers have long debated whether dinosaurs were warm blooded like their living relatives, modern birds. In recent decades, the idea that dinosaurs — especially later, smaller, more bird-like dinosaurs – were warm blooded and active like birds, rather than more sluggish like cold-blooded lizards, has become more popular among scientists. Dinosaurs weren't warm-blooded, study suggests Dinosaur blood cells, proteins found in crummy Alberta fossils New dinosaur finds soar in 'golden age' of dinosaur discovery The new estimates from an international team of scientists suggests some dinosaurs were quite warm blooded — huge, long-necked plant eaters called titanosaurs that lived in ancient Argentina had average body temperatures of 37.6 C. But more bird-like oviraptors from Mongolia had body temperatures that averaged 31.9 C — much lower than modern birds' average of 36 to 43 C, but still higher than the temperature of the surrounding environment, which was estimated to be 26.3 C. "The temperatures we measured suggest that at least some dinosaurs were not fully endotherms [warm-blooded] like modern birds," said Robert Eagle, a scientist at the University of California, Los Angeles, who led the research. "They may have been intermediate — somewhere between modern alligators and crocodiles and modern birds." The results were published in the journal Nature Communications. This clutch of fossil Titanosaur eggs was found in Argentina. The shells reveal the body temperature of the mother dinosaur when she produced them. (Luis Chiappe) The researchers aren't sure why the titanosaurs, which are generally considered more reptile-like and less bird-like than oviraptors, were warmer, but they suggested two possible explanations. Titanosaurs could have elaborate systems to regulate their temperature the way modern birds and mammals do. They might just stay warm more easily due to their large size, as leatherback turtles do. The researchers estimated dinosaurs' body temperatures by examining their fossilized eggshells. Eggshells contain small amounts of heavier forms of carbon and oxygen that tend to cluster together more when the temperature is lower. By looking at the amount of clustering of those isotopes, the researchers were able to estimate the body temperature of the mother dinosaur at the time she produced the eggs. The researchers found the estimated body temperatures for the titanosaurs was similar to earlier estimates they had made based on their analysis of the dinosaurs' teeth. A technician lies next to the femur of a Titanosaurus nicknamed 'the giant' at the Egidio Feruglio Museum in Argentina. Titanosaurs were huge, long-necked plant eaters that could grow up to 40 metres long. (Reuters/Museo Egidio Feruglio) CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Video Titanosaur, possibly biggest dinosaur ever, unearthed in Argentina Dinosaur blood cells, proteins found in crummy Alberta fossils Warm-blooded fish discovered Dinosaurs weren't warm-blooded, study suggests External Links Summary of the paper in Nature Communications Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca