https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/canadians-donate-10-000-to-save-arctic-research-station-1.1204890
Canadians donate $10,000 to save Arctic research station | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Canadians donate $10,000 to save Arctic research station Social Sharing Technology & Science Canadians donate $10,000 to save Arctic research station Canadians have donated about $10,000 to help keep a unique High Arctic research station from closing after its federal funding stops, says the Canadian Foundation for Climate and Atmospheric Sciences. Social Sharing PEARL forced to stop year-round monitoring of greenhouse gases, pollution CBC News · Posted: Mar 16, 2012 7:05 PM ET | Last Updated: March 16, 2012 Canadians have donated about $10,000 to help keep a unique High Arctic research station from closing after its federal funding stops, says the Canadian Foundation for Climate and Atmospheric Sciences. The Polar Environment Atmospheric Research Laboratory is located at Eureka on Ellesmere Island, at a latitude of 80 degrees north. (CANDAC) The Polar Environment Atmospheric Research Laboratory, or PEARL, is the northern-most civilian research station in Canada. The laboratory takes measurements on greenhouse gases and ozone and verifies the accuracy of satellite data, among other things. It contributes data to several international projects monitoring climate change. "Donations range from $5 up to over $1,000 and they come from coast to coast, from students, from people from all walks of life who are responding to the fact that this unique research station will not continue," said Dawn Conway, executive director of the foundation. She says about 80 people have donated since the Canadian Network for the Detection of Atmospheric Change announced the station would not be able to continue year-round. "I’m really impressed with Canadians," said Kim Strong, an atmospheric physics professor at the University of Toronto who takes a team to the station each spring to measure air quality, pollution and greenhouse gases. "It’s quite heartwarming. We’ve received a lot of expressions of support, which are just as welcome as the funding," she said. Most of the station’s $1.5 million annual budget came from the Canadian Foundation for Climate and Atmospheric Sciences, a granting agency funded by the federal government from 2000 to 2010. In the 2011 budget, the government did not fund CFCAS but allocated $35 million over five years for climate and atmospheric research to be administered by Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada. A call for proposals has not yet issued for those funds, according to Strong. Without guaranteed funding, the foundation says PEARL will stop its year-round operations on April 30. Strong says the scientific community expects a call for proposals in the next few weeks, as it takes time to establish a new funding program. Although the $10,000 is only a small percentage of the budget needed to stay open year-round, Conway says the funds will be made available to the team of researchers who manage the work at PEARL, led by Prof. James Drummond from Dalhousie University. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Threatened Arctic lab aided by ordinary citizens High Arctic research station forced to close Threatened Arctic lab aided by ordinary citizens Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca