https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/wwf-report-criticizes-canada-s-ecological-footprint-1.1263041
WWF report criticizes Canada's ecological footprint | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news WWF report criticizes Canada's ecological footprint Social Sharing Technology & Science WWF report criticizes Canada's ecological footprint Canada has the world's 8th largest ecological footprint per capita, according to WWF's Living Planet Report 2012, which was released on Tuesday. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: May 15, 2012 11:46 AM ET | Last Updated: May 16, 2012 Canada and the U.S. are among the top 10 countries with the largest ecological footprint per capita, the World Wildlife Fund says in its latest report. (NASA/Reuters) Canada has the world's 8th largest ecological footprint per capita, according to WWF's Living Planet Report 2012, which was released on Tuesday. If the entire world lived like Canadians do, it would take 3.5 Earths to support the demand, the report says. Biggest ecological footprints per capita Qatar. Kuwait. United Arab Emirates. Denmark. United States of America. Belgium. Australia. Canada. Netherlands. Ireland. "More than half of Canada’s total footprint is a result of its carbon footprint, derived predominately from fossil fuel use," said the report, which the WWF releases every two years. The report tracks the health of the planet's ecosystems over several decades, as well as human demand on resources, with the help of the Zoological Society of London and the Global Footprint Network. A study of 2,688 mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian and fish species finds that biodiversity dropped by about 30 per cent worldwide between 1970 and 2008, the report says. That was mostly due to species in the tropics, which saw a 60 per cent decline. Biodiversity in temperate climates actually grew about 30 per cent. The report also warns that global demand on natural resources has doubled since 1966, and that "high-income" countries have a footprint five times greater than low-income countries. "Natural capital — biodiversity, ecosystems and ecosystem services — must be preserved and, where necessary, restored as the foundation of human economies and societies," the WWF urges. "Placing greater economic value on the goods and services provided by nature will help secure long-term economic and ecosystem health." Gerald Butts, head of WWF Canada, says the country's vast natural resources will be lost for future generations if we don't reduce our demands on the planet. Canada has an opportunity as a resource-rich country to protect the future by valuing the natural capital that is at the core of its economy and identity, he said. With files from The Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Canada failing its oceans, biodiversity panel finds External Links The full report (PDF) Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca