https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/emily-chung-1.3488054
Emily Chung - Science and Technology Writer | CBC Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Emily Chung - Science and Technology Writer Social Sharing Emily Chung Science and Technology Writer Emily Chung covers science and technology for CBC News. She has previously worked as a digital journalist for CBC Ottawa and as an occasional producer at CBC's Quirks & Quarks. She has a PhD in chemistry. Latest from Emily Chung The riskiest surfaces for coronavirus and how to clean them Worried about catching the novel coronavirus by touching the wrong thing? Here’s what we know about which surfaces are worst, which ones are safer, and how to clean them. Health |March 28 Masks and COVID-19: When, how and why you'd wear them Public health officials in North America discourage healthy people from wearing masks, saying there’s no evidence they provide effective protection against the spread of the coronavirus, which causes COVID-19. But officials in Asia encourage it. And health workers here say they need masks for protection. Confused? Here’s a closer look. Health |March 30 Hospitals scramble to secure more ventilators amid coronavirus outbreak Canada’s hospitals and health officials are looking at ways to boost the number of available ventilators to prepare for a deluge of very sick COVID-19 patients amid projections that they could run out of such life-saving equipment within weeks. Health |March 20 Truths and myths: What can and can't protect you against COVID-19 There is a lot of advice floating around about what can and can't protect you from getting COVID-19. But what's true and what's not? Here are some things that experts say don't work — and some that do. Health |March 26 Got questions about social distancing? Here's what you need to know We’ve all heard a lot about social distancing or physical distancing to slow the spread of COVID-19, and most of us get the gist of what that means. But it’s still confusing to figure out which activities are OK and which ones aren’t. Here’s what you need to know. Health |March 24 Smallest dinosaur ever found was hummingbird-sized A bird-like dinosaur with a beak full of teeth and claws on its wings is the tiniest extinct dinosaur ever found. Technology & Science |March 12 Compostable plastics often go to landfill. Here's one venue that gets them composted Certified compostable plastic cups, cutlery and other packaging are not, in fact, composted by most residential organics programs in Canada. Here’s how some businesses and commercial composters are making sure those products stay out of the landfill and go back to the soil. Technology & Science |March 11 Plant-based? Compostable? What you need to know about bioplastics Plastics made from fossil fuels generate a lot of greenhouse gas emissions and waste. 'Bioplastics,' especially compostable plastics made from plants, have been touted as a greener alternative. But what are they really? And are they really more environmentally friendly? Here’s a closer look. Technology & Science |March 9 Fossil identified as 'great-grandfather' of wolverines A tiny skull once thought to belong to an ancient miniature cat is actually the earliest relative of wolverines, minks and other weasels ever found in North America, researchers say. Technology & Science |March 3 Scientists discover 1st animal that doesn't breathe oxygen For the first time, scientists have discovered something they didn’t think existed -- an animal that can’t breathe oxygen — and obviously doesn’t need to. Technology & Science |March 2 Earth has captured a new mini-moon Earth has a tiny new companion in its journey around the sun — at least for now. Technology & Science |February 27 Tim Hortons changes Roll Up the Rim contest to go greener Tim Hortons is making changes to its Roll Up the Rim contest this year to reduce waste and encourage customers to bring their own mugs. Technology & Science |February 19 Dinosaur found with signs of tumour-causing disease that afflicts humans today Fossils from a hapless hadrosaur from Alberta show telltale signs of a disease that causes tumours in human children, showing the affliction has been around since the Age of Dinosaurs, a new study suggests. Technology & Science |February 18 Canada could be a huge climate change winner when it comes to farmland Canada will add a huge share of the land that becomes climatically suitable for growing crops as the world's temperatures rise, a new study says. But the study also finds that growing crops on that land could have many negative environmental impacts — including even more greenhouse gas emissions. Technology & Science |February 13 New 'reaper of death' tyrannosaur is the oldest found in Canada A new species of tyrannosaur — the oldest ever found in Canada — has been discovered in Alberta. Technology & Science |February 10 Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca