http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/climate-change-is-killing-off-bumblebees-study-1.3145014
Climate change is killing off bumblebees: study | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Climate change is killing off bumblebees: study Social Sharing Technology & Science Climate change is killing off bumblebees: study Bumblebees can't move north to cope with warmer temperatures, and climate change is wiping them out in many areas where they lived several decades ago, a Canadian-led study suggests. Social Sharing Unlike other animals, bumblebees can't seem to move north into cooler areas Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Jul 09, 2015 2:00 PM ET | Last Updated: February 6 Liz Hood, director of education and head beekeeper at the Toronto Botanical Garden, on what bees have taught her. 3:07 comments Bumblebees can't move north to cope with warmer temperatures, and climate change is wiping them out in many areas where they lived several decades ago, a Canadian-led study suggests. The study looked at where 67 bumblebee species were found in North America and Europe from 1901 to 2010. Since 1975, bee species have been squeezed north by about nine kilometres a year, and are now locally extinct in the southern 300 kilometres of their ranges, said Jeremy Kerr, lead author of a new paper describing the findings. "The rates of loss are very rapid and are nearly the same across continents," he said at a news conference organized by Science where the paper is being published today. Full paper in Science The researchers from Canada, the U.S., the U.K., and Belgium analyzed a database of 423,000 observations of bees from museum and university collections around the world, along with more recent monitoring programs. Over the century the bees were tracked, temperatures warmed about 2.5 C on average in the northern parts of the areas where they lived. While the bees moved to cooler, higher elevations in some areas, they haven't expanded north at all to compensate for their disappearance in the south. That came as a surprise to the researchers, as many other species such as butterflies, birds, fish and other species are moving north rather quickly as the climate changes. Climate change threatens birds, pushes them north Climate change forcing fish stocks north Sea life relocating fast in response to climate change Crushed in 'climate vise' Bumblebees' lack of aptitude to cope with climate change could put them at risk of extinction if humans don't take action, the researchers suggest. Some species, such as North America's rusty-patched bumblebee, have already gone nearly extinct. "We already know that extreme heat in southern Europe, for example, has wiped out local populations of some bumblebee species," said Kerr, a biology professor and research chair in macroecology at the University of Ottawa. "In this paper, we show that this mechanism may be operating across two continents to crush bumblebee species in a kind of climate vise." A red-belted bumblebee visits a large-leaved lupine. Bumblebees are being wiped out the southern areas they once lived, but aren't expanding northward to compensate, a new Canadian-led study suggests. (Jeremy T. Kerr) Kerr and his co-authors are particularly concerned that bumblebees are being squeezed into smaller and smaller geographic areas while their populations are also taking a hit from threats such as habitat loss and pesticides – factors that may kill off individual bees and hives, but don't seem to affect the overall geographic range of the whole population. "We are essentially hitting them with everything we have in our global change arsenal." Bees may get hooked on neonicotinoid pesticides Bee researchers raise more warning flags about neonicotinoid pesticides Better pollinators than other bees The loss of bumblebees is a problem because we rely heavily on bees to pollinate our crops, said Alana Pindar, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Guelph in Ontario. She co-authored the paper and took part in the news conference, which also included co-authors from the University of Calgary and York University in Toronto. The paper shows that the bees' decline in the south and their inability to move north 'may be operating across two continents to crush bumblebee species in a kind of climate vise,' says lead author Jeremy Kerr of the University of Ottawa. (Antoine Morin) Wild bees are actually better pollinators than honeybees, and bumblebees are better pollinators than other wild bees because they're active for most of the year, from spring until fall, and can therefore pollinate a huge range of plants. Many other bee species that typically only pollinate a few species of plants for a few weeks of the year. Bees don't deal well with warmer temperatures, Pindar said, because they evolved in cooler places, away from the tropics. The researchers aren't sure why the bees aren't moving north, but they believe it's because they're unable to establish new populations fast enough. One bumblebee species that has the rare ability to expand northward is Europe's buff-tailed bumblebee, which builds unusually large colonies, says Kerr. 'Assisted migration' So what can be done to save the bees? One possibility that the researchers suggest is for humans to physically move some bees north. David Goulson, professor of biology at the University of Sussex, who was not involved in the research, said he is not convinced that would work. Researchers suggest that humans may be able to help save bumblebees by physically moving them further north. (Jeremy T. Kerr) "Bumblebees are pretty mobile creatures," he said in a statement. "I think it is likely that they could move northwards on their own if suitable habitat were available to move in to." Nathalie Pettorelli, a research fellow with the Zoological Society of London, and who was not involved in the research, said in order to save the bees, scientists will need to figure out why they can't move north. "Without this knowledge, efficient mitigation strategies are difficult to identify," she said in a statement. 11 plants to make your garden bee-friendly VIDEO: What I learned from bees For now, the researchers behind the study suggest focusing on conservation in areas hit by climate change, but making sure bees have the habitats they need to survive. This could involve: Preserving natural areas in higher-altitude or cooler "microclimates." Planting gardens with bee-friendly plants such as raspberries. Ensuring there are places left for wildflowers and bee nesting areas at the edge of farmers' fields. "Above all," Kerr said, "we must reduce greenhouse gas pollution and come to grips convincingly with the climate change threat." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories As It Happens Global warming is the cause of bumblebee decline: study 11 plants to make your garden bee-friendly Wild bees boost harvest more than honeybees 'Save the bees' plan unveiled by U.S. government B.C. wild bees in decline, urgent action needed, says expert Bumblebee species 'in trouble': U.S. study DNTO What I learned from bees Climate change tied to bee pollination decline External Links Full paper in Science Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca