https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/big-fish-numbers-dwindling-ubc-study-1.1038498
Big fish numbers dwindling: UBC study | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Big fish numbers dwindling: UBC study Social Sharing Technology & Science Big fish numbers dwindling: UBC study The population breakdown in the world's oceans is changing dramatically, with big fish numbers dropping while smaller fish thrive, according to a University of British Columbia study. Social Sharing Prey fish populations have doubled as predators overfished CBC News · Posted: Feb 20, 2011 1:45 PM ET | Last Updated: February 20, 2011 Bidders look at a giant bluefin tuna being sold at auction at Tsukiji fish market in Tokyo in January. (Kyodo News/Associated Press) The population breakdown in the world's oceans is changing dramatically, with big fish numbers dropping while smaller fish become more plentiful, according to a new study. Villy Christensen, a researcher at the University of British Columbia Fisheries Centre, says that means predators like tuna, cod and swordfish have seen their numbers drop by two-thirds over the past century, while small prey fish such as herring, caplin and anchovies have doubled. He compares it to human beings visiting Africa's Serengeti region, seeing gazelles and antelopes everywhere, and wondering where the lions are. "With the big predators gone, the population of prey species would soar. The underwater is an ecosystem just like the Serengeti, where you have predators and prey and a big complex food web." Much of the decline in last 40 years Christensen, an ecosystem modeller, and several colleagues presented their findings Friday at a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington, D.C. "The UBC team also found that of the decline in predatory fish population, 54 per cent took place in the last 40 years alone," says a news release from the university. The culprit in global oceans is worldwide overfishing of tuna, groupers and other big, tasty fish that are slow to reproduce. Christensen says this has unbalanced the underwater system and allowed smaller species to thrive. Fish tastes must change The solution could include encouraging humans to try more eco-friendly fish such as sablefish, albacore tuna, mackerel or sardines, says marine biologist Mike McDermid. He's the program manager for the Ocean Wise conservation project at the Vancouver Aquarium, and works with restaurants and the seafood industry to get consumers to stop chowing down on overfished species such as orange roughy and bluefin tuna. "We need to get away from our traditional tastes a bit — always eating the same thing, always focusing on those big, predatory species — to open up to some new cuisine," McDermid said. In food lingo, that means eating lower down on the food chain in an attempt to right the underwater imbalance of predator and prey. With files from Greg Rasmussen CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Fish stocks recovering from overfishing Documentary on overfishing Action needed to stop ocean plunder: WWF External Links UBC news release on fish study UBC news release on fish study Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca