https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/new-orangutan-species-1.4384791
New orangutan species found in Indonesia | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news New orangutan species found in Indonesia Social Sharing Technology & Science·Video New orangutan species found in Indonesia A new species of orangutan has been identified in remote Indonesian forests and immediately becomes the most endangered type of great ape in the world with just 800 individuals, scientists said on Thursday. Social Sharing With fewer than 800 in existence, it is the most endangered great ape Thomson Reuters · Posted: Nov 02, 2017 4:55 PM ET | Last Updated: November 3, 2017 Only about 800 in existence; immediately classified endangered 0:38 A new species of orangutan has been identified in remote Indonesian forests and immediately becomes the most endangered type of great ape in the world with just 800 individuals, scientists said on Thursday. The Tapanuli orangutan, found only in upland forests in North Sumatra, differs from the other two species of orangutan in the shape of its skull and teeth, its genes, and in the way the males make long booming calls across the jungle, they said. "The differences are very subtle, not easily observable to the naked eye," Prof. Michael Kruetzen of the University of Zurich, who is part of an international team, told Reuters. "With no more than 800 individuals, this species is the most endangered great ape," the scientists wrote. Apart from humans, great apes comprise orangutans, gorillas, chimpanzees and bonobos. The newly discovered Tapanuli orangutan differs from the other two species of orangutan in the shape of its skull and teeth, among other factors. (Maxime Aliaga) The Tapanuli orangutan had probably been isolated from other populations for 10,000 to 20,000 years, the researchers wrote in the journal Current Biology. The population had been known by scientists since at least 1997 but had not previously been considered a separate species. The Tapanuli orangutan faces threats including that of forest clearance to make way for mining or palm oil plantations. The region also had plans for a hydroelectric dam. The scientists urged quick conservation measures. Otherwise, "we may see the discovery and extinction of a great ape species within our lifetime," they wrote. A baby Pongo tanapnuliensis, also known as the Tapanuli orangutan, plays in a tree. (Andrew Walmsley) Laurel Sutherlin of Rainforest Action Network, who was not involved in the study, said the finding "must also serve as a wake up call to all of us from consumers, to global food and paper brands, to investors and local and national governments" to protect forests. Cities are driving evolution — and may spawn new species Why Canada's endangered species are declining faster than ever CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Mass die-off of Antarctic penguin chicks alarms researchers Right whales could be 20 years away from certain extinction, scientists say Endangered orangutans released into the wild External Links Current Biology Rainforest Action Network Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca