https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/jaw-dropping-fossils-more-proof-of-hobbits-1.548360
Jaw-dropping fossils more proof of 'hobbits' | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Jaw-dropping fossils more proof of 'hobbits' Social Sharing Technology & Science Jaw-dropping fossils more proof of 'hobbits' Scientists find more bones from early species of dwarfed humans in Indonesia. Fossils help bolster idea the specimens belong to a new species, Flores Man. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Oct 11, 2005 3:25 PM ET | Last Updated: October 11, 2005 Australian paleontologists say they've found more bones of a new human dwarf species, popularly known as prehistoric hobbits. Last year, Prof. Mike Morwood, of the University of New England in Armidale, Australia, and his team announced the discovery of what appeared to be an adult female less than one metre tall that walked upright with a grapefruit-sized skull. The skeleton, called LB1, was dated to about 18,000 years ago, meaning modern humans may have shared the planet with other hominids much more recently than thought. The remains were found on the Indonesian island of Flores, east of Java, leading the team to call it Homo floresiensis or "Man of Flores." The find touched off a scientific debate over whether the specimen: Is a naturally tiny species of early human as the team proposes. Is a modern human that suffers from microencephaly, a genetic disorder resulting in small brain size. Is a pygmy human, not a new hominid species. Now, Morwood's team describes more fossil remains, including a jaw, arm and other similarly small bones that they say came from nine individuals. Two mandibles also share dental features and lack a chin, a portion of the jaw common to all Homo sapiens regardless of size. "We can now reconstruct the body proportions of H. floresiensis with some certainty," the researchers write in the Oct. 11 online issue of the journal Nature. "The finds further demonstrate the LB1 ... is not just an aberrant or pathological individual but is representative of a long-term population." Building fires, making tools The paleontologists suggest the new species evolved its small size because of the limited resources, small populations and predators on the island. "What captures the imagination is that dwarfing might have occurred in humans, who often buffer themselves from natural selection through cultural means such as tool production and fire-making, both evident at [the fossil site]," wrote Daniel Lieberman, of the Peabody Museum at Harvard University in a journal commentary. Lieberman suggests the island-dwarfing hypothesis could be tested by finding more, older fossils from Flores. Three-dimensional analysis of the shape of the fossils independent of size could also help reveal if Homo floresiensis is simply a scaled down version of another early human species, he said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Abstract of Flores Man study, Nature Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca