http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/global-investors-push-for-carbon-pricing-ahead-of-un-climate-summit-1.2770175
Global investors push for carbon pricing ahead of UN climate summit | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Global investors push for carbon pricing ahead of UN climate summit Social Sharing Technology & Science Global investors push for carbon pricing ahead of UN climate summit More than 340 institutional investors representing $24 trillion in assets on Thursday called on government leaders attending next week's United Nations climate summit to set carbon pricing policies that encourage the private sector to invest in cleaner technologies. Social Sharing Climate change policy delays pose risk to investments, investors say Thomson Reuters · Posted: Sep 18, 2014 10:34 AM ET | Last Updated: September 18, 2014 The investors want countries to set a price tag on pollution by taxing carbon emission or implementing cap and trade emissions policies to create incentives for investing in cleaner technologies. (The Associated Press) More than 340 institutional investors representing $24 trillion in assets on Thursday called on government leaders attending next week's United Nations climate summit to set carbon pricing policies that encourage the private sector to invest in cleaner technologies. Firms signing a joint letter include BlackRock, Calvert Investments, BNP Paribas Investment Partners and Standard Bank. They want countries to set a price tag on pollution by taxing carbon emission or implementing cap and trade emissions policies to create incentives for investing in cleaner technologies. "Stronger political leadership and more ambitious policies are needed in order for us to scale up our investments," the investors' statement said. IMF calls for green shift with 52% gas tax hike in Canada The UN climate change summit on Sep. 23, devised and led by Secretary General Ban-ki Moon, will bring heads of state and senior officials from more than 125 countries, including U.S. President Barack Obama, to New York to mobilize global action to address climate change. The institutional investors added that gaps and delays in implementing climate change policies increase risks to their investments since the physical impacts of climate change "will increase the likelihood that more radical policy measures will be required to reduce greenhouse gas emissions." UN summit to focus on business, financial communities In addition to political declarations, the UN summit will place a heavy focus on the role the business and financial communities can play to drive low-carbon economic growth. "Investors are owners of large segments of the global economy as well as custodians of citizens' savings around the world. Having such a critical mass of them demand a transition to the low-carbon and green economy is exactly the signal governments need in order to move to ambitious action quickly," said Achim Steiner, director of the UN Environment Programme. UNEP coordinated the joint investor statement with four investor groups focused on climate change, including Ceres' Investor Network on Climate Risk and the Asia Investor Group on Climate Change. Both the UN and the World Bank have been calling on CEOs to embrace internal carbon pricing policies ahead of the summit. On the sidelines of the summit, Ban will also host a private sector forum that will help build up support for carbon pricing in businesses and governments. Among participants in that event are the CEOs of Air France , China's Sinopec, the McDonald's Corporation and Royal Dutch Shell. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Greenhouse gases grew at alarming rate in 2013, UN weather agency says UN climate talks fracture over future of carbon markets IMF calls for green shift with 52% gas tax hike in Canada Tony Abbott, Stephen Harper take hard line against carbon tax IMF head says world must come to grips with climate change costs Australia's carbon tax repealed after 2 years External Links News release about the letter UNEP Climate Summit 2014 Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca