https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/coral-reef-amazon-1.3559343
Coral reef at Amazon River's mouth surprises scientists | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Coral reef at Amazon River's mouth surprises scientists Social Sharing Technology & Science Coral reef at Amazon River's mouth surprises scientists Scientists have discovered a huge, coral reef hidden in a place they didn't think coral reefs could live – under the muddy waters at the mouth of the Amazon River. Social Sharing Dark, muddy plume where river meets Atlantic Ocean hides giant reef system CBC News · Posted: Apr 29, 2016 3:26 PM ET | Last Updated: April 29, 2016 American and Brazilian researchers collected this sponge sample during the 2012 expedition. Other reef animals they found included corals, fish, snails and barnacles. (University of Georgia) comments Scientists have discovered a huge, coral reef hidden in a place they didn't think coral reefs could live – under the muddy waters at the mouth of the Amazon River. The massive reef covers about 9,500 square kilometres, stretching from the Brazil-French Guiana border in the north to Brazil's Maranhao State in the south, report Brazilian and U.S. researchers in a recent paper in the journal Science Advances. Oh my gosh, it is just full of the most amazing, colourful animals I have ever seen on any kind of an expedition like this - Patricia Yager, University of Georgia Despite its huge size, it was unknown to science until very recently. That's largely because it's in an environment where no one would have thought to look for a coral reef, said Patricia Yager, an associate professor of marine sciences at the University of Georgia, who was part of the scientific team that discovered and studied it during expeditions in 2012 and 2014. The University of Georgia's Patricia Yager, left, and Debbie Steinberg of the Virginia Institute of Marine Sciences hold up a sample of water collected at the mouth of the Amazon River. (Jason Landrum) Where the Amazon River flows into the Atlantic Ocean, it generates a huge "plume" – a muddy mixture of fresh water from the nearby mouth of the Amazon River and salty seawater from the Atlantic Ocean, covering about 1.3 million square kilometres. The researchers explored it aboard the research vessel Atlantis. "The ocean was chocolate brown. It kind of looked like a latte," recalled Yager in an interview with CBC's Quirks & Quarks that aired Saturday. One of the world's largest reef ecosystems has been found in the mouth of the Amazon River. 17:18 Scientists have traditionally thought that coral reefs can't thrive in dark, muddy environments like that. Ancient glass sponge reef discovered off B.C. coast Where the Amazon River flows into the Atlantic Ocean, it generates a huge 'plume' – a muddy mixture of fresh water from the nearby mouth of the Amazon River and salty seawater from the Atlantic Ocean, covering about 1.3 million square kilometres. (Lance Willis) So Yager was skeptical when a Brazilian collaborator, Rodrigo Moura of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, mentioned he wanted to check out a report of possible reefs in the area that he found in a journal article from the 1970s. "To be honest with you, my eyebrows went up, and I thought, 'Have you ever been there?'" she said. Her own studies were of the plume itself, but once those were complete, the team visited a spot that Moura had chosen. It was at the southern end of the plume, in an area that is only covered by the plume for six to nine months of the year. The team dredged the area below the boat for about two minutes. "All the oceanographers at this point are hanging over the side trying to see what's going to come up," Yager said. "Everyone's really excited. Partly, none of us believe that he's going to find anything." Corals, sponges, fish When the dredge came back up, they were shocked. "Oh my gosh, it is just full of the most amazing, colourful animals I have ever seen on any kind of an expedition like this – pink and red and blue and yellow," Yager recalled. "At this particular spot, there were corals, lots of sponges, beautiful little fish, a big snail that's the size of your fist covered with barnacles… just really, really beautiful animals." The University of Georgia's Patricia Yager, centre, oversees ocean sampling equipment on board the RV Atlantis before it's lowered into the Amazon River plume. (Lance Willis) Yager says she thinks the coral reef is able to exist because it sits below the plume, which floats because fresh water is less dense than seawater. The fast current in the region carries food past the reef for animals to snatch as it goes by, but prevents sediment from settling and burying living things. Now that the coral reef has been discovered, the researchers are concerned about potential threats in the area, including climate change, fishing and oil and gas exploration. Rising acidity of oceans a major threat to coral reefs Northern Great Barrier Reef experiences worst coral bleaching on record, researchers warn Yager said she saw a recent map of oil and gas exploration leases in the region. "And oh my gosh, they're just right there on top of where we think the reefs are." She says the oil and gas companies need to be encouraged to look and see what's on the sea floor before they begin drilling. Brazilian graduate student Nara Oliveira and Rodrigo Moura of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro sort through the reef animals brought up by the dredge during the 2012 expedition on board the RV Atlantis. (Federal University of Rio de Janeiro) Hear the full interview with Patricia Yager on Quirks & Quarks Scientists may have discovered massive lake under Antarctic ice CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Ancient glass sponge reef discovered off B.C. coast Video Northern Great Barrier Reef experiences worst coral bleaching on record, researchers warn Coral reefs on Christmas Island dead after El Niño Video Northern Great Barrier Reef experiences worst coral bleaching on record, researchers warn Q&A Scientists may have discovered massive lake under Antarctic ice External Links Summary of the paper in Science Advances University of Georgia news release Research Vessel Atlantis Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca