https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/endeavour-undocks-from-space-station-1.795320
Endeavour undocks from space station | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Endeavour undocks from space station Social Sharing Technology & Science Endeavour undocks from space station Two Canadian astronauts said their goodbyes aboard the International Space Station on Tuesday, with Julie Payette returning to the Earth-bound space shuttle and Robert Thirsk continuing his stay aboard the orbiting outpost. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 28, 2009 2:00 PM ET | Last Updated: July 28, 2009 Two Canadian astronauts said their goodbyes aboard the International Space Station on Tuesday, with Julie Payette returning to the Earth-bound space shuttle and Robert Thirsk continuing his stay aboard the orbiting outpost. The space shuttle Endeavour undocked from the International Space Station at 1:26 p.m. ET and began a final fly-around of the station before heading on course for a Friday landing at NASA's Kennedy Space Center in Florida. Endeavour arrived at the space station a week and a half ago on a mission to install a porch-like structure used to conduct experiments exposed to the harsh conditions of outer space — the third major component to Japan's Kibo laboratory. The shuttle also delivered U.S. astronaut Tim Kopra, the newest crew member to the six-person space station team. He replaces Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency astronaut Koichi Wakata, who had been aboard the station since March and is on board Endeavour as it departs the station. The shuttle mission was a first for Canada, as the arrival of Montreal-born Payette marked the first time two Canadians worked together in space. Thirsk, from New Westminster, B.C., travelled to the space station aboard a Russian Soyuz rocket, which lifted off from a launch pad in Kazakhstan on May 27. He is living on the station for six months, the first Canadian to stay aboard the station for an extended period of time. The mission was also the first time 13 astronauts worked together on a mission, the largest-ever gathering of people in space. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Astronauts share their thoughts about life in space Cirque du Soleil founder preps for space trip Canadians meet at space station Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca