https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/experts-call-for-international-biodiversity-panel-1.627907
Experts call for international biodiversity panel | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Experts call for international biodiversity panel Social Sharing Technology & Science Experts call for international biodiversity panel Earth is on the verge of a biodiversity crisis and an international panel of experts is needed to tackle the problem, leading biologists say. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 19, 2006 4:00 PM ET | Last Updated: July 19, 2006 A crisis is looming in the diversity of life on Earth and an international panel of experts is needed to tackle the problem, leading biologists say. Like the UN's panel on climate change, a biodiversity group could provide authoritative advice to governments, say the experts from 13 countries. "Virtually all aspects of biodiversity are in steep decline and a large number of populations and species are likely to become extinct this century," they wrote in a commentary appearing in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. "Despite this evidence, biodiversity is still consistently undervalued and given inadequate weight in both private and public decisions. There is an urgent need to bridge the gap between science and policy," biology Prof. Michel Loreau of McGill University in Montreal and co-author Alfred Oteng-Yeboah of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research in Accra, Ghana, said. Biodiversity is more complex than issues such as the stratospheric ozone hole or even global climate change, since it spans genetic, species and ecosystem levels, cannot be measured by a simple indicator and needs to be managed locally, they note. Previous biodiversity conventions weren't formally linked to and funded by governments. That support is needed to ensure scientific information leads to action at national and global levels, they said. A related study in the same issue by Neil Rooney of the University of Guelph and colleagues surveyed ecosystems including Chesapeake Bay off the eastern United States, the Alaskan tundra, a European pine forest and a Dutch experimental farm. The researchers concluded predators at the top of the food chain who feed on a range of species from lower levels are needed for stability in the ecosystem. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Ecological complexity untangled, Nature Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca