https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/how-to-think-like-a-neanderthal-1.1149890
How to think like a Neanderthal | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news How to think like a Neanderthal Social Sharing Technology & Science·Audio How to think like a Neanderthal A lack of creativity and the inability to innovate may have led to the extinction of the Neanderthals, two researchers argue in a book that aims to get inside the Neanderthal mind. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Feb 13, 2012 3:01 PM ET | Last Updated: February 13, 2012 A lack of creativity and the inability to innovate may have led to the extinction of the Neanderthals, two researchers argue in a book that aims to get inside the Neanderthal mind. In How to Think Like a Neanderthal, anthropologist Thomas Wynn and psychologist Frederick Coolidge of the University of Colorado in Colorado Springs create a psychological profile of Neanderthals based on archeological evidence. The relatives of Homo sapiens that roamed Europe and Western Asia for 200,000 years went extinct about 30,000 years ago. In their new book, anthropologist Thomas Wynn and psychologist Frederick Coolidge create a psychological profile of Neanderthals based on archeological evidence. (Oxford University Press) "I think the archeological evidence really shows that they were similar in many ways to homo sapiens, but they were also really different in many ways," Coolidge told CBC's Quirks & Quarks. Early Homo sapiens left behind artifacts such as tools that were very similar to those made by Neanderthals. But 50,000 years ago, our own species underwent a "cultural explosion," in which they began creating cave art and figurines and engaging in elaborate burial rituals, Coolidge said. Meanwhile, Neanderthals left the same kinds of artifacts behind for their entire existence, suggesting they lacked Homo sapiens' creative abilities. "If you've always done it one way for 200,000 years and you're not very good at doing it any other way, it really makes you more vulnerable to extinction," Wynn said. He suggested this might have been reflected in Neanderthals' language and communication, in their humour and in their ability to develop large social groups, or even trade networks. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Quirks & Quarks External Links How to Think Like a Neanderthal Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca