https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/earth-to-warm-more-than-2c-1.4228914
Study suggests Earth to warm more than 2 C this century | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Study suggests Earth to warm more than 2 C this century Social Sharing Technology & Science Study suggests Earth to warm more than 2 C this century A new study from the University of Washington suggests that there is a 90 per cent chance Earth will warm anywhere between 2 C and 4.9 C above pre-industrial levels by the end of the century. Social Sharing There is only a 1 per cent chance Earth will warm 1.5 C below pre-industrial average, model shows Nicole Mortillaro · CBC News · Posted: Aug 01, 2017 1:21 PM ET | Last Updated: August 1, 2017 Steam and exhaust rise from different companies on Jan. 6 in Oberhausen, Germany. A new study suggests that Earth will warm above the 2 C target set out by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. (Lukas Schulze/Getty Images) A new study from the University of Washington suggests that there is a 90 per cent chance Earth will warm anywhere between 2 C and 4.9 C above pre-industrial levels by the end of the century. The researchers of the study published in Nature Climate Change used statistical tools which found only a five per cent chance the planet will warm by 2 C or less by the end of the century. There was only a one per cent chance it would warm below 1.5 C, a target set out by almost 200 countries in the Paris climate agreement. In order to run the model, the researchers collected data from the past 50 years from 150 countries that account for 99 per cent of the world's population. They included population, gross domestic product (GDP) and carbon usage as well as trends, such as declining CO2 production. Climate change researchers cancel expedition because of climate change Arctic climate warming higher and faster than expected Climate change means more 'mild days' ahead for Canada, study suggests They found that carbon intensity has been decreasing over the past 50 years. That, lead author Adrian Raftery said, is because the global climate has been an issue for more than 30 years and technological advancements have helped reduce emissions. I think our work puts into sharper focus that we're not very likely to make those targets and we could be going for much higher numbers. - Adrian Raftery , University of Washington Despite that, however, Earth will continue to warm. And that's largely due to the carbon that has already been produced. Essentially, there's a game of catch-up when it comes to the planet's temperature. Another reason is the improvement in living conditions, seen in terms of gross domestic product (GDP). "The rate at which GDP has been increasing is very similar to the rate at which carbon intensity has been going down," Raftery told CBC News. "So they're fairly close to cancelling one another out. In terms in carbon efficiency, we're running fast to stay in the same place. And that's kind of a frustrating perspective." Consequences The models also predicted a global population of 11 billion by 2100. But that didn't play a significant role in CO2 production and rising temperatures. That's because three quarters of the population increase will occur in sub-Saharan Africa, where emissions are low and will continue to be low. The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) provided four scenarios in Earth's warming. While not forecasts, the consequences are dire for a temperature increase such as the one forecast in this new study. Depending on the geographic location, they include droughts, floods, increasing forest fires, rising sea levels, a change in migration patterns, and food shortages. Tinder dry weather, wind and dry lightning have caused fires to spread aggressively across British Columbia this summer. With a warming climate, we may see an increase in wildfires, according to the IPCC. (B.C. Wildfire Service) "It's more urgent to address the issue, because up until now it's been couched in terms of a target of 1.5 degrees or 2 degrees which would already have consequences," Raftery said. "I think our work puts into sharper focus that we're not very likely to make those targets and we could be going for much higher numbers. If they're realized, the consequences would be much more severe." Raftery said that the world should look to countries like France which has a low-carbon infrastructure, including carbon-efficient public transportation, high gas tax and nuclear power. As for the Paris agreement, signed by almost 200 countries in an effort to prevent Earth from warming 2 C above pre-industrial levels, Raftery said it's disappointing to see the U.S. — a major contributor of CO2 emissions — pull out. "The U.S. pulling out of the Paris agreement is extremely unfortunate. And I think it will definitely make it harder to limit the amount of warming," Raftery said. However, he added that individual states have stepped up their efforts to reduce emissions, which may mitigate the effects. While some may believe we're already doomed and should give up, Raftery said that's not the case. "I think it's exactly the opposite, because 2.5 [C] is much better than 3.2 [C]." About the Author Nicole Mortillaro Senior Reporter, Science Nicole has an avid interest in all things science. As an amateur astronomer, Nicole can be found looking up at the night sky appreciating the marvels of our universe. She is the editor of the Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada and the author of several books. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories 4 ways technology can help mitigate climate change Climate change means more 'mild days' ahead for Canada, study suggests Ship sets record for earliest crossing of Northwest Passage External Links Nature Climate Change IPCC IPCC Assessment Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca