https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/south-pole-ozone-hole-could-be-largest-ever-1.706182
South Pole ozone hole could be largest ever | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news South Pole ozone hole could be largest ever Social Sharing Technology & Science South Pole ozone hole could be largest ever This year's ozone hole surrounding the Southern Hemisphere's pole is shaping up to be one of the largest ever, having already surpassed the size of last year's, according to the World Meteorological Organization. Social Sharing Posted: Sep 17, 2008 1:08 PM ET | Last Updated: September 17, 2008 This year's ozone hole surrounding the Southern Hemisphere's pole is shaping up to be one of the largest ever, having already surpassed the size of last year's, according to the World Meteorological Organization. The WMO says that despite a relatively late start, the ozone hole has grown rapidly during the past couple of weeks and has now passed the maximum size attained in 2007. According to the WMO, the hole in the ozone layer over Antarctica currently covers an area of 27 million square kilometres, compared to a maximum of 25 million square kilometres last year. It says that while the hole continues to grow, it is still too early to determine how large it will be, before it breaks apart in mid-December. Paul Fraser, an atmospheric scientist with Australia's Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, says that while this year's ozone hole is large, it isn't unexpected. "Last year's hole was relatively small," says Fraser. "Most of the holes over the past few years have been large." He added that, "This year's hole is shaping up to be a big one like 2006, which was one of the biggest." The hole in the ozone layer over Antarctica in 2006 measured 28 million square kilometres. Driven by weather Ozone-depleting chemicals, such as chlorofluorocarbons, were phased out under the 1987 Montreal Protocol, but continue to linger in the atmosphere. The hole in the ozone layer already covers an area of 27 million square kilometres. ((National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration)) Fraser says these chemicals are currently decreasing at a rate of approximately 1 per cent per year. Despite this, the size of the ozone hole is still determined mainly by the stratospheric weather. "The size is driven largely by the temperature and shape of the polar vortex — the air mass in the stratosphere in which the ozone hole forms," says Fraser. "When it's exceptionally cold and symmetrical then you'll have a very deep ozone hole." He added that it's unlikely there will be statistically significant changes in the ozone hole driven by those small changes in ozone-depleting chemicals for the next five to 10 years. Experts predict that the ozone layer will fully recover sometime in the second half of this century, but this is complicated by other atmospheric processes, such as an increase in the level of greenhouse gases. "Not only do we have to predict the supply of chemicals, but we also have to predict the stratospheric temperatures," says Fraser. "In the stratosphere, greenhouse gases cause cooling. So in the polar regions they enhance the ability of chemicals to destroy ozone, while the accumulation of greenhouse gases will hasten ozone recovery around mid-latitudes.... So the role of greenhouse gases in ozone depletion is quite complicated." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca