https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/deadly-virus-may-spread-to-endangered-gorillas-1.1051036
Deadly virus may spread to endangered gorillas | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Deadly virus may spread to endangered gorillas Social Sharing Technology & Science Deadly virus may spread to endangered gorillas A virus causing deadly respiratory diseases in humans can be passed on to mountain gorillas in Central Africa, researchers have found. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Mar 30, 2011 2:06 PM ET | Last Updated: March 30, 2011 A female adult mountain gorilla, with her 6 months old offspring, in the Volcanos National Park in Rwanda. A new study has found that a virus causing deadly respiratory diseases in humans can be passed on to critically endangered mountain gorillas in Central Africa. (Riccardo Gangale/Associated Press) A virus causing deadly respiratory diseases in humans can be passed on to mountain gorillas in Central Africa, researchers have found. Researchers who spent time in Rwanda's Volcanoes National Park said they found traces of human metapneumovirus during post-mortem examinations of two gorillas that died in 2009. The two, a mother and a newborn, were in a group of 12 infected gorillas. Researchers could not establish the source of the virus that killed the two gorillas. Human metapneumovirus can cause severe colds and pneumonia. There are only 786 mountain gorillas in the wild that live in Rwanda, Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo. The study published this week in the Emerging Infectious Diseases Journal of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said that while gorilla tourism provides revenue for conservation activities, it poses risks of infection. Disease concern for gorillas The study says close genetic similarities between the two — gorillas share approximately 98 per cent of their DNA with humans — has led to concerns that the apes may be susceptible to many of the infectious diseases that affect people. The study says that while mountain gorillas are "immunologically naive and susceptible to infection with human pathogens," most of the focus has been on how diseases affecting apes can be transmitted to humans. The report says gorillas' existence is threatened by encroachment on their habitat, poaching and infectious diseases. Diseases account for 20 per cent of all sudden deaths of the apes. "The potential for disease transmission between humans and mountain gorillas is of particular concern because over the past 100 years, mountain gorillas have come into increasing contact with humans," researchers said in a statement. "In fact, the national parks where the gorillas are protected in Rwanda, Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo are surrounded by the densest human populations in continental Africa." The researchers added: "Also, gorilla tourism, while helping the gorillas survive by funding the national parks that shelter them, brings thousands of people from local communities and around the world into contact with mountain gorillas annually." The study was conducted by researchers from the non-profit Mountain Gorilla Veterinary Project, the Wildlife Health Center at the University of California, Davis, the Center for Infection and Immunity at Columbia University and the Rwanda Development Board. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Human metapneumovirus infection in wild mountain gorillas, CDC Human metapneumovirus infection in wild mountain gorillas, CDC Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca