https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/rare-ancient-bird-had-sharp-serrated-teeth-1.1322629
Rare ancient bird had sharp, serrated teeth | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Rare ancient bird had sharp, serrated teeth Social Sharing Technology & Science Rare ancient bird had sharp, serrated teeth Scientists say they've uncovered a bird from the Early Cretaceous period which had sharp teeth with serrated edges, likely enabling it to eat hard-shelled snails and insects. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jan 07, 2013 1:46 PM ET | Last Updated: January 7, 2013 Scientists say they’ve uncovered a bird from the Early Cretaceous period with sharp teeth and serrated edges, which likely enabled it to eat hard-shelled insects and snails. Researchers analyzed the fossil of the Sulcavis geeorum bird uncovered in Liaoning Province, China, and published their findings in Vertebrate Paleontology. The unusual fossil still had remnants of its food in its stomach. That area in China is known to have been a primeval forest that was home to dinosaurs as well as primitive lizards and birds. Existing some 121 to 125 million years ago, the Sulcavis is believed to have had a durophagus diet, which means its teeth were capable of chomping into prey that had exoskeletons. Sulcavis is the first fossil bird discovered to have ornamented tooth enamel. The species is unique that it has a diversity of dental patterns, with pointed, sharp crowns that have grooves on the inside surface. No previous bird species have those kinds of serrated edges or striations. Jingmai O’Connor, lead author of the study, said the bird appears to have adapted to eating different, harder-to-chew animals but somehow died off — a mystery scientists are still scratching their heads over. "Maybe differences in diet played a part," O'Connor said. Study co-author Luis Chiappe, from the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles, said their finding "highlights again how uneven the diversity of birds was during the Cretaceous [period]." The Sulcavis geeorum, about the size of a robin, belonged to a class of extinct birds with teeth, Enantiornithines. Chiappe says modern-day fliers still possess the genes for teeth but those genes have been turned off. Scientists have surmised the teeth are too heavy and that birds’ bodies have gotten lighter and therefore could not support such massive chompers. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Birds evolving faster in Americas, study says Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca