https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/fast-growing-plants-may-weather-climate-change-better-study-1.692338
Fast-growing plants may weather climate change better: study | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Fast-growing plants may weather climate change better: study Social Sharing Technology & Science Fast-growing plants may weather climate change better: study Plants with short life cycles can adapt more quickly to change than those that reproduce slowly and may cope better with climate change, according to a new study by researchers at the University of California, Irvine. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Jan 09, 2007 9:36 AM ET | Last Updated: January 9, 2007 The ability to grow like a weed may be an advantage when it comes to coping with climate change. Plants with short life cycles can adapt more quickly to change than those that reproduce slowly, according to a new study by researchers at the University of California, Irvine. The findings are reported in Tuesday's issue of Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. "Some species evolve fast enough to keep up with environmental change," Arthur Weis, professor of ecology and evolutionary biology, said in a statement."Global warming may increase the pace of this change so that certain species may have difficulty keeping up. Plants with longer life cycles will have fewer generations over which to evolve." Weis and colleagues focused on Brassica rapa— field mustard— a plant classified as an annual because it goes from seed to flower and back to seed in one year. That allows for more rapid evolution than something like a redwood, which takes years to reach maturity and reproduce. The researchers had collected seeds near the school campus in 1997, two years before a long drought set in. They also collected seeds after the drought, in the winter of 2004. Both groups of seeds were then planted at the same time in greenhouses. The post-drought seeds flowered earlier than those collected before the drought, a shift in timing that would enable them to complete seed production before the soil dried out. Plants that bloomed later withered before they could set seed. "Early winter rainfall did not change much during the drought, but the late winters and springs were unusually dry. This precipitation pattern put a selective pressure on plants to flower earlier," co-author Steven Franks said in a statement. In a separate paper in the same issue, researchers report that amphibians such as salamanders and frogs appear able to adapt rapidly to changes in the environment. Kim Roelants of Vrije University in Brussels and colleagues report that they found no major extinctions of amphibians in a study of the fossil record of periods when other land animals were undergoing major extinctions. Instead, their analysis showed periods when amphibians diversified rapidly, an indication that they coped with change by changing themselves, rather than by dying out. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Vrije University Vrije University Vrije University Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca