https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/carbon-capture-concerns-raised-1.944837
Carbon capture concerns raised | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Carbon capture concerns raised Social Sharing Technology & Science Carbon capture concerns raised A new study claims there are unanswered questions about carbon sequestration and the impact of leakage on global warming. Social Sharing Posted: Jun 28, 2010 9:32 AM ET | Last Updated: June 28, 2010 A new study claims there are unanswered questions about carbon sequestration and the impact of leakage on global warming. Carbon sequestration or carbon capture and storage (CCS) is being promoted as a way to remove growing levels of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Governments around the world are investing billions of dollars over the next decade developing carbon capture and storage systems to extract CO2 at power plants and other combustion sites and store it underground. Prof. Gary Shaffer from the Danish Centre for Earth System Science examined a range of CCS methods to determine their effectiveness and long-term impacts. Reporting in the journal Nature Geoscience, Shaffer says there are still questions over which sequestration process is best and which is least likely to leak carbon. Fears for the future "CCS has many potential advantages over other forms of climate geoengineering," says Shaffer. "However, potential short and long-term problems with leakage from underground storage should not be taken lightly." The study reveals leakage of sequestered CO2 could cause large-scale atmospheric warming, sea level rise and oxygen depletion, acidification and elevated CO2 concentrations in the ocean. Shaffer says storing CO2 in the deep ocean is a bad idea because of the problems it creates for deepsea life by creating a "large dead zone." He adds that deep ocean stored CO2 would return to the atmosphere relatively quickly. Geological storage of CO2 — either underground or below the ocean floor — may be more effective, but only if leakage can be kept down to one per cent or less per one thousand years. Shaffer says any long-term leakage would need to be actively countered by re-sequestration, which would need to be carried out over many thousands of years. Necessary approach Dr Peter Cook, chief executive of the Co-operative Research Centre for Greenhouse Gas Technologies, says Shaffer's figures for geological sequestration mirrors the conclusions reached by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Cook, who was involved with the IPCC study, says "as long as you have the right rocks to store the carbon in, then sequestration will do what nature does anyway in keeping CO2 out of the atmosphere." "We have the Ottway Basin Project which has been going for two years. We've injected 65,000 tonnes there with no leakage," he says. "We compress the CO2 gas into a liquid and inject it into porous rocks below non porous strata, trapping it deep underground." Cook says the study doesn't take into account the fact that CO2 stored underground becomes denser over time. "It will actually sink further down rather than bubble up towards the surface," he says. But Shaffer says society should be targeting the source of CO2 rather than relying on capture and storage. "The dangers of carbon sequestration are real and the development of CCS should not be used as a way of justifying continued high fossil fuel emissions," he says. "We should greatly limit CO2 emissions in our time to reduce the need for massive carbon sequestration and thus reduce unwanted consequences." Cook says under the current set of circumstances CCS will be needed. "As long as we use fossil fuels geological sequestration will need to be part of the cycle." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Scientists explore storing CO2 in rock How easy is it to nab greenhouse gases at the smokestack? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca