https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/psittacosaurus-colour-dinosaur-1.3763237
Scientists decipher colour of 'super cute' bristly dinosaur, Psittacosaurus | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Scientists decipher colour of 'super cute' bristly dinosaur, Psittacosaurus Social Sharing Technology & Science Scientists decipher colour of 'super cute' bristly dinosaur, Psittacosaurus Scientists guided by small structures preserved in fossilized skin have deciphered the colour and camouflage pattern of a little dinosaur with a parrot-like beak and bristles on its tail that roamed thick forests in China about 120 million years ago. Social Sharing 'I think they would have made fantastic pets,' said paleobiologist Jakob Vinther Thomson Reuters · Posted: Sep 15, 2016 9:51 AM ET | Last Updated: September 15, 2016 A recreation of the Psittacosaurus is seen in the Bristol Botanic Garden in Bristol, U.K. (Jakob Vinther) Scientists guided by small structures preserved in fossilized skin have deciphered the colour and camouflage pattern of a little dinosaur with a parrot-like beak and bristles on its tail that roamed thick forests in China about 120 million years ago. Bird wings from Age of Dinosaurs found trapped in amber Tyrannosaurus rex would have had lips, Toronto paleontologist says Psittacosaurus was mainly brown but with a paler underside of the tail and belly, a pattern called countershading that may have helped the 1.5-metre-long bipedal plant-eater go unnoticed by hungry predators, the scientists said on Thursday. It also had a heavily pigmented face and hind legs that were striped on the inside and reticulated and spotted on the outside. The colour pattern suggested Psittacosaurus lived in a forest environment with diffuse light from a dense canopy of trees, the researchers said. They created a life-sized, full-colour, three-dimensional model based on their findings. "Our model suggests it was super, super cute. I think they would have made fantastic pets. They look a bit like E.T.," said molecular paleobiologist Jakob Vinther of the University of Bristol in Britain, referring to the friendly alien in the 1982 film E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial. Colour patterns for camouflage Psittacosaurus, meaning "parrot lizard," is one of the most thoroughly studied dinosaurs, with hundreds of individual fossils. It was roughly the size of a Labrador retriever, and probably was a common meal for Cretaceous Period predators like the nine-metre-long T. rex cousin Yutyrannus. A fossil of the 120-million-year-old Psittacosaurus, preserved with skin and colour patterns, is seen on display at the Senckenberg Museum of Natural History in Frankfurt, Germany. (Jakob Vinther, Robert Nicholls) "It was eaten by a lot of other animals," Vinther said, and must have quickly evolved optimal colour patterns for camouflage. Psittacosaurus is the third dinosaur to have its colour deduced using fossilized organelles called melanosomes that synthesize and store the pigment melanin in vertebrate animals and are present in hair, feathers and skin. It also was the first time researchers were able to hypothesize the environment a dinosaur inhabited based on its coloration. Psittacosaurus, an early member of the horned-dinosaur group that includes the massive Triceratops, had a short face and a strong beak to eat plants, and boasted bristly long filaments above the tail. Countershading is a pattern that serves to conceal shadows on an animal, making it appear more flat optically and less conspicuous, Vinther said. "It is everywhere. We see it in the sea, on land and in flying birds," Vinther said. "Examples could be penguins, puffins, dolphins, mackerel, deer, foxes, antelopes. You name it. It's ubiquitous." The research was published in the journal Current Biology. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Bird wings from Age of Dinosaurs found trapped in amber Tyrannosaurus rex would have had lips, Toronto paleontologist says Why birds were the only dinosaurs that survived mass extinction Oldest fossil chameleon found trapped in amber Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca