https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/fossils-reveal-world-s-oldest-soft-bodied-mollusc-1.614791
Fossils reveal world's oldest soft-bodied mollusc | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Fossils reveal world's oldest soft-bodied mollusc Social Sharing Technology & Science Fossils reveal world's oldest soft-bodied mollusc Newly discovered features of ancient fossils from the Burgess Shale in B.C. suggest an odd creature is the world's oldest known soft-bodied mollusc, the group that includes modern snails and squid. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 12, 2006 1:59 PM ET | Last Updated: July 12, 2006 Newly discovered features of ancient fossils from the Burgess Shale in British Columbia suggestan odd creature is the world's oldest known soft-bodied mollusc, the group that includes today's snails and squid. Jean-Bernard Caron, invertebrate paleontology curator of the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto, and his team looked at new specimens of Odontogriphus omalus, a half-billion-year-old toothed riddle. The discovery, which researchers say reveals the world's oldest known soft-bodied mollusc,opens a new window on the early evolution of animals. The 189 specimens, some as large as 12 centimetres long and four centimetres wide,were extracted from the mountains of British Columbia over the past 15 years. The fossils show the creature had a defining feature of molluscs: a hard feeding structure called a radula. Odontogriphus had teeth positioned in rows on a ribbon for feeding, just as modern snails have similar features to scrape films of algae off aquarium glass, the researchers said in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. Fresh sets of teeth appear As the front teeth wear out and are discarded or swallowed, the ribbon moves to expose fresh sets of teeth,Stefan Bengtson of the Swedish Museum of Natural History in Stockholm wrote in a journal commentary. The shell-less mollusc used its radula to graze on mats ofmicrobes on the seafloor. It had an oval body, compressed from top to bottom, with simple gill-like structures surrounding a muscular sole or "foot" on the underside, another sign of molluscs, the researchers said. The discovery extends the roots of the mollusc lineage as far back as the Late Precambrian age, at least 560 million years ago, Caron said. If true, molluscs and therefore many other groups of animals evolved tens of millions of years earlier than thought. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links Mollusc of mats' destruction, Nature Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca