https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/mars-mission-simulation-begins-1.969984
Mars mission simulation begins | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Mars mission simulation begins Social Sharing Technology & Science Mars mission simulation begins An international team of researchers has begun a simulation of a flight to Mars that will keep them locked in windowless modules for 520 days — the time required for a journey to the Red Planet and back to Earth. Social Sharing 'Something that no human has done before' The Associated Press · Posted: Jun 03, 2010 8:55 AM ET | Last Updated: June 3, 2010 An international team of researchers began a gruelling simulation of a flight to Mars on Thursday that will keep them locked in windowless modules for 520 days — the amount of time required for a journey to the Red Planet and back to Earth. While the experiment, conducted jointly by Russia, China and the European Space Agency, does not involve weightlessness, it will try to tackle the psychological challenges of a real flight to Mars — particularly the stress, claustrophobia and fatigue that a space crew would endure during interplanetary travel. Researchers test spacesuits during a training session at Moscow's Institute for Medical and Biological Problems, where a crew began a 520-day simulated mission to Mars on Thursday. ((Oleg Voloshin/IBMP/Associated Press)) The six-member, all-male crew — three Russians, a Frenchman, an Italian-Colombian and a Chinese — expressed confidence that the experiment would be a success. Diego Urbina, the Italian-Colombian member, said the mission would mean "accomplishing dreams about the future, doing something that no human has done before." Psychologists said the simulation could be even more demanding than a real flight because the crew won't experience any of the euphoria or dangers of actual space travel. They have also warned that months of confinement would push the team to the limits of endurance as they grow increasingly tired of each other. Well aware of this hazard, crew members equipped themselves accordingly. For instance, French participant Romain Charles said he was bringing along a guitar so he could entertain the other team members. Isolation impact The main task of the Mars-500 experiment, conducted by the Moscow-based Institute for Medical and Biological Problems, is to study the effects of long isolation to better understand how a space crew should cope with stress and fatigue. The facility for the experiment is at Russia's premier space medicine centre. It comprises several interconnected modules with a total volume of 550 cubic metres and a separate built-in imitator of the surface of Mars for a mock landing. The researchers will communicate with the outside world via internet — delayed and occasionally disrupted to imitate the effects of space travel. They will eat preserved food similar to that offered on the International Space Station, and will shower every 10 days. The crew will have two days off in a week, except when emergencies are simulated. The ESA said the crew will regularly play video games as part of the agency's project to develop personalized software to interact with crews on future space missions. In addition to 27-year-old Urbina and 30-year-old Charles, the crew members are Sukhrob Kamolov, 32; Alexander Smoleyevsky, 33; and Alexey Sitev, 38, all Russians, and Wang Yue, 26, from China. For mission captain Sitev, the experiment means separation from his wife just a few weeks after the two wed. When asked about marital repercussions, he tried to put on a brave face. "I'll tell you that it's difficult for me to part with my family, just as it is for any other person," he said just before the experiment began. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories IN DEPTH: Exploration of Mars Mars: The red planet The Phoenix mission Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca