http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/lucy-tree-climber-1.3876419
Human ancestor 'Lucy' was tree climber, new study shows | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Human ancestor 'Lucy' was tree climber, new study shows Social Sharing Technology & Science Human ancestor 'Lucy' was tree climber, new study shows Scientists using sophisticated scanning technology on the fossil bones of the ancient human ancestor from Ethiopia dubbed "Lucy" have determined that she was adept at climbing trees as well as walking — an ability that in her case may have proven fatal. Social Sharing Scientists used sophisticated CT scanning on the fossil bones of this ancient human ancestor Thomson Reuters · Posted: Dec 01, 2016 1:10 PM ET | Last Updated: December 1, 2016 A 2007 photo shows a three-dimensional model of the early human ancestor, Australopithecus afarensis, known as Lucy, on display at the Houston Museum of Natural Science. The discovery of the new Australopithecus fossil is expected to help researchers better understand the human ancestor's appearance and movement. (Pat Sullivan/Associated Press) Scientists using sophisticated scanning technology on the fossil bones of the ancient human ancestor from Ethiopia dubbed "Lucy" have determined that she was adept at climbing trees as well as walking — an ability that in her case may have proven fatal. Researchers announced Wednesday the results of an intensive analysis of the 3.18 million-year-old fossils of Lucy, a member of a species early in the human evolutionary lineage known as Australopithecus afarensis. The scans of Lucy's arm bones showed they were heavily built, like those of chimpanzees. This indicates that members of this species spent significant time climbing in trees and used their arms to pull themselves up in the branches. Australopithecus afarensis possessed a combination of ape-like and human-like traits. Scientists already knew the species' feet were adapted for walking upright on two legs, rather than grasping trees, but had wondered about whether its members still spent time in trees like their ancestors. New hominin species may have lived alongside 'Lucy' Bones of Homo naledi, new human relative, found in South African cave Ancient human with close Neanderthal ancestor found in Romania Chimpanzees, the closest living relative of humans, spend a lot of time in trees. The researchers performed high-resolution X-ray CT scans on Lucy's fossils at the University of Texas and compared the findings to data on the bones of modern humans and chimpanzees. Lucy didn't know she was unique. - John Kappelman, University of Texas "The debate about whether or not Lucy climbed trees has been raging ever since her discovery 42 years ago this month — our study brings that debate to a close," said University of Texas paleoanthropologist John Kappelman, one of researchers in the study published in the journal PLOS ONE. The 1974 discovery of Lucy created a scientific sensation and shed light on early stages of human evolution. Our species, Homo sapiens, appeared in Africa 200,000 years ago. "Our analysis required well-preserved upper and lower limb bones from the same individual, something very rare in the fossil record," added the study's lead author, Christopher Ruff, a professor of functional anatomy and evolution at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in Baltimore. The findings fit nicely with a study published in August by Kappelman and other researchers that concluded that Lucy herself may have died after a fall from a tree, based on bone fractures detected in the fossils. Human ancestor Lucy's cause of death solved, scientists say Kappelman has hypothesized that Lucy, about 1.07 metres, foraged on the ground and sought nightly refuge in trees. Her injuries indicated she fell from a height of more than 12 metres, that earlier study found. "It may seem unique from our perspective that early hominins [members of the human evolutionary lineage] like Lucy combined walking on the ground on two legs with a significant amount of tree climbing, but Lucy didn't know she was unique," he said. Cavers recount discovery of ancient human relative Homo naledi CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Human ancestor Lucy's cause of death solved, scientists say New hominin species may have lived alongside 'Lucy' Bones of Homo naledi, new human relative, found in South African cave Fossil jawbone pushes back human evolution at least 400,000 years Human ancestors walked 3 million years ago Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca