https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/u-s-europe-explore-mars-partnership-1.781320
U.S., Europe explore Mars partnership | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news U.S., Europe explore Mars partnership Social Sharing Technology & Science U.S., Europe explore Mars partnership The U.S. has dominated the exploration of Mars, but budget woes are pushing NASA toward a joint exploration venture with Europe. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Jun 09, 2009 8:41 AM ET | Last Updated: June 9, 2009 For almost half a century, the United States has dominated the exploration of Mars from the first grainy black-and-white pictures of the craggy surface to the more recent discovery of ice. Now, budget woes are pushing NASA toward a joint exploration venture with Europe. By 2016, the U.S. may unite with the European Space Agency for future Mars trips — a move that would mark a significant shift for NASA. Details of such a union could come by the end of this month. In May, NASA space sciences chief Ed Weiler said he believed a partnership was the best avenue to pursue shared science goals "if we can lose a little bit of our ego and nationalism." A NASA presentation to the Mars science community in March indicated that the two space agencies would likely take turns being the leader. As Marcello Coradini of the European agency has put it: "In terms of willingness, we all agree that we have to work together. The discussion is not on the 'if,' it's on the 'how' we work together." Merging rover missions a challenge The impetus for the unprecedented discussions comes down to money. After delaying the launch of its powerful Mars Science Laboratory to 2011, NASA had to slash its technology spending and scale back its future Mars vision to pay for the $2.3-billion US next-generation, nuclear-powered rover. The Europeans, too, have money problems. They lack the cash to send up ExoMars, a new drill-toting rover scheduled to launch in 2016. NASA is trying to figure out how to help Europe land on Mars while sending up its own less capable orbiter during the same launch window. "That's a difficult partnership because we had an existing mission and they had an existing mission, and to merge two existing missions is challenging," said Doug McCuistion, who heads NASA's Mars exploration program. "Frankly, we have backed off quite a bit on our mission requirements. They've backed off somewhat." Still unresolved is who will pay for the rocket that will blast both out of the Earth's atmosphere and what joint projects to pursue beyond 2016. While an international collaboration makes financial sense, it is also fraught with risks. The European Space Agency has never successfully landed a spacecraft on Mars, though it has an orbiter circling the planet. Coradini, ESA co-ordinator for solar system missions, envisions trade-offs in the partnership. "We reverse the shared responsibilities. As with any good family, one day it's the husband doing the dishes and another day it's the wife," he said. "If it's always the husband or always the wife, then we're bound for a divorce." Success fuelled by co-operation or competition? Talk of a possible marriage has unnerved some space advocates who worry a union will decrease competition and cause the U.S. to lose its edge, holding it hostage to foreign politics. "NASA should be showing off its stuff and not saying, 'We can't do it unless we have the co-operation,'" said Robert Zubrin, a former Lockheed Martin Corp. engineer who now heads the Mars Society advocacy group. While international pairings are nothing new, they tend to be more common on deep space missions. NASA united with the European and Italian space agencies to launch the Cassini-Huygens mission to Saturn and its moon Titan. Earlier this year, NASA and the European agency announced plans to be partners on a 2020 mission to Jupiter's ice-covered moon Europa. With Mars, however, NASA has kept a do-it-yourself attitude while letting other countries add instruments to NASA spacecraft for their own data-gathering. That NASA and the Europeans are considering pooling resources reflects a budget reality: It has become too expensive for one nation to pay to go to Mars alone, especially with a long-term goal of returning Martian rocks and soil to Earth estimated to cost at least $5 billion US. The growing pains afflicting the U.S. Mars program are partly due to it being a victim of its own success. Past missions have raised more questions about whether the planet once had an environment that could support microbial life. To get answers requires more expensive study. The early American Mars missions were quick flybys. In 1965, Mariner 4 became the world's first spacecraft to return 21 close-up images. The failures of an orbiter and lander in 1999 led to a revamp of the program. Golden age of Mars exploration The last decade arguably has been the golden age of Mars exploration. The plucky twin rovers Spirit and Opportunity are still active after five years. Before it froze to death last year, the Phoenix lander gathered up ice and tested water. "Now the question is, where do we go from here?" said Scott Hubbard, a former NASA Mars czar who teaches at Stanford University. Arizona State University Mars scientist Phil Christensen believes a partnership is inevitable given the cost, but he would rather see the space agencies collaborate after 2016. "We're very close to the point where we can't keep on doing it alone," he said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca