https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/new-moon-rocket-passes-nasa-review-1.739744
New moon rocket passes NASA review | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news New moon rocket passes NASA review Social Sharing Technology & Science New moon rocket passes NASA review NASA's new moon rocket passed a key design milestone late Wednesday: Senior NASA management unanimously approved the preliminary design review of the planned Ares I rocket that would launch astronauts into space by 2015 and back to the moon by 2020. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Sep 11, 2008 11:11 AM ET | Last Updated: September 11, 2008 NASA's new moon rocket passed a key design milestone late Wednesday: Senior NASA management unanimously approved the preliminary design review of the planned Ares I rocket that would launch astronauts into space by 2015 and back to the moon by 2020. But next year there will be another narrowly focused "delta" preliminary design review for one pending engineering issue — too much shaking after launch. This artist rendering shows NASA's next-generation of moon rockets being developed. Ares I, left, will carry astronauts into space. Ares V is the cargo launch vehicle that will carry the lunar lander and other large hardware. ((NASA, Marshall Space Flight Center/ Associated Press)) This is the first preliminary design review approval for a rocket that carries astronauts since 1973, when the space shuttle passed the same stage, said Steve Cook, NASA's Ares projects manager. These reviews are to make sure that the broad design, plans and software mesh properly and pass early safety questions. A more detailed test — a critical design review — is scheduled for March 2011. Most of the rocket is not built yet. "This is where we wrap the entire vehicle together to say we have a sound design from stem to stern," Cook said in a Wednesday evening teleconference. "It's really a big step in our journey to launch." NASA engineers last month said they had figured out how to fix the remaining shaking issue with giant shock absorbers, but still more work is needed before that can pass review. About 10 per cent of the problems that engineers brought up are still to be resolved but do not require a separate review, including noise problems and questions if the rocket could fly through rough weather, especially lightning, Cook said. NASA is also looking at potential problems that could come when the lower part of the rocket separates. The Orion crew capsule, which will sit on top of the Ares I, will have its preliminary design review in late 2009. One issue raised was that engineers would have to make sure they shrunk the launch platform design by 20 cm to match an equivalent reduction in the size of the the bottom part of the rocket. It's mostly a matter of paperwork, Cook said. NASA is spending about $3 billion US a year on the return-to-the moon program. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories NASA safety panel worries about moon ship design Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca