https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/gene-therapy-halts-rare-brain-disease-1.788247
Gene therapy halts rare brain disease | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Gene therapy halts rare brain disease Social Sharing Technology & Science Gene therapy halts rare brain disease Two patients with a rare and fatal brain disease have been successfully treated using an experimental gene therapy, French scientists say. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Nov 05, 2009 9:54 PM ET | Last Updated: November 5, 2009 Two patients with a rare and fatal brain disease have been successfully treated using an experimental gene therapy, French scientists say. Researchers used a disabled form of HIV to transfer working genes into two boys with X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy or ALD — a rare, hereditary condition featured in the 1992 movie Lorenzo's Oil. The disease is caused by a deficiency of a protein needed to degrade fatty acids. People with ALD gradually lose the myelin sheath, a protective layer coating the brain's nerve fibers. The disease leads to blindness, deafness, progressive dementia, seizures and loss of muscle control. The two-year study appears in Friday's issue of the journal Science. The two boys showed the same degree of improvement they would have with a bone marrow transplant, the usual way the disease is treated, said lead researcher Dr. Patrick Aubourg of the University Paris-Descartes. Bone marrow transplants help people with ALD by allowing new myelin-forming stem cells to grow, but it is difficult to find a match and the transplant procedure is risky. Auburg's team used gene therapy to eliminate the ALD mutation in the bone marrow stem cells of the seven-year-old boys. A healthy version of the gene was attached to a disabled version of HIV, which delivered the gene after harmlessly infecting cells. 'Only the beginning' The healthy ALD protein was produced in about 15 per cent of the cells. It was enough to slow ALD, but that may not be sufficient for other diseases, Aubourg cautioned. "There is a lot of work to be done to make this gene therapy vector more powerful, less complicated and less expensive. This is only the beginning," he said in a release. Gene therapy research suffered a setback 10 years ago when an American teenager died in one experiment, and two boys got leukemia after treatment for severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) or "bubble boy disease" in 2002. The research was funded by the National Institute of Health and Research Medical, Assistance Publique des Hôpitaux de Paris, PHRC programs, the Deutsche Forchungsgemeinschaft and the German Ministry of Education and Research, the European Leukodystrophy Association, the Association Française contre les Myopathies, the Stop ALD Foundation and University Paris-Descartes. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Gene therapy cures form of 'bubble boy disease' Gene therapy for cancer External Links Science magazine Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca