http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/polar-bear-diving-record-linked-to-melting-sea-ice-1.3180470
Polar bear diving record linked to melting sea ice | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Polar bear diving record linked to melting sea ice Social Sharing Technology & Science Polar bear diving record linked to melting sea ice A hungry polar bear has been witnessed diving and swimming underwater for more than three minutes without coming up for air, smashing a previous record of 72 seconds. Social Sharing Bear stays underwater for 3 minutes and 10 seconds without coming up for air CBC News · Posted: Aug 05, 2015 3:41 PM ET | Last Updated: August 6, 2015 This very skinny male polar bear was seen last August swimming underwater for more than three minutes without coming up for air. (Rinie van Meurs) comments A hungry polar bear has been witnessed diving and swimming underwater for more than three minutes without coming up for air, smashing a previous record of 72 seconds. The feat, described in the journal Polar Biology, may illustrate the desperate measures polar bears must take to survive as climate change melts away their traditional hunting grounds on the sea ice of the Arctic Ocean, says one of the authors of the study. Summary of the paper in Polar Biology The new record was witnessed by veteran Arctic guide Rinie van Meurs last August. He had been taking a family out by boat to see polar bears near the Svalbard archipelago in northern Norway, when they spotted a "very, very skinny" adult male polar bear, he recalled in an interview with CBC's As It Happens. An Arctic guide witnesses the longest-known polar bear dive, but says the feat was an act of desperation made necessary by shrinking sea ice. 6:28 As they watched and filmed it on video, the polar bear began to stalk three bearded seals on a large ice floe on the other side of a large channel of open water, beyond the boat. Tourist Petrina Steains films an emaciated polar bear in a record-breaking dive 3:38 Polar bears rely on sea ice as a habitat for hunting seals, but as the Arctic gets warmer as a result of climate change, there is less and less sea ice, especially in the summer. Nowhere to hide Normally, van Meurs said, when polar bears stalk seals on ice floes, they hide behind other ice floes "but in this case, there was nothing" to hide behind. Instead, the bear hid underwater, diving when it was about 40 metres away from the first seal. When that seal escaped into the water, the polar bear changed course toward the second seal without coming up for air. He went to the extreme to make this work. - Rinie van Meurs, Arctic guide Three minutes and 10 seconds later, the bear "exploded out of the water at the floe edge and propelled itself halfway onto the ice immediately in front of the second seal," wrote van Meurs and Canadian polar bear researcher Ian Stirling, from the University of Alberta, in their research paper. "The seal got away," van Meurs recalled, "but he was very, very close." In this case, he added, the scrawny bear looked very desperate for food. "He went to the extreme to make this work," van Meurs said. But the success rate for polar bears in this kind of hunt is very low, the researchers noted in their paper. Because of that, they said, they don't think polar bears can evolve better diving abilities fast enough to compensate for the rapidly melting sea ice. Polar bears: Threatened species or political pawn? Previously, the longest dive ever recorded for a polar bear was 72 seconds, according to Stirling, who witnessed the 72-second dive in 1973. This isn't the first record set by a desperate polar bear – in 2011, a female polar bear swam for nearly 700 kilometres over nine days in search of ice floes to hunt on. As the ice melts, van Meurs said, polar bears may push themselves to the limits of their abilities to dive, swim, walk and fast in order to survive. But even that won't help when the sea ice completely disappears during the summer months. "Then, simply, bears can't make a living anymore." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Video Polar bears: Threatened species or political pawn? Walrus move north, leaving Alaska natives with fewer food sources Polar bears could find last refuge in Canada's High Arctic as ice melts Polar bears migrate to Canadian Arctic for longer lasting ice: study High Arctic no refuge for polar bears if climate change continues, study finds Polar bears not able to slow down metabolism when food scarce: study External Links Summary of the paper in Polar Biology Ian Stirling: Longest Known Underwater Dive by a Polar Bear Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca