https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/mammals-shrink-faster-than-they-grow-1.1143515
Mammals shrink faster than they grow | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Mammals shrink faster than they grow Social Sharing Technology & Science Mammals shrink faster than they grow An international team of scientists, including some from Canada, has discovered that mammals shrink at faster rates than they grow — a finding that sheds light on the conditions that potentially contribute to extinction. Social Sharing It takes 24 million generations for mouse-sized animals to evolve to elephant size CBC News · Posted: Jan 30, 2012 3:26 PM ET | Last Updated: February 6, 2012 A mouse-to-elephant size change would take at least 24 million generations based on the maximum speed of evolution in the fossil record. Becoming smaller can happen much faster than becoming bigger: the evolution of pygmy elephants took 10 times fewer generations than the equivalent sheep-to-elephant size change. (Alistair Evans/David Jones/PNAS) An international team of scientists, including some from Canada, has discovered that mammals shrink at faster rates than they grow — a finding that sheds light on the conditions that potentially contribute to extinction. Their study, published Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, shows it took about 24 million generations for a mouse-sized animal to evolve to the size of an elephant, but only 100,000 generations for very large decreases leading to dwarfism to occur. The research is unique because previous work in this area has focused on microevolution — the small changes that occur within a species. The paper studied 28 different types of mammals from the four largest continents (Africa, Eurasia, and North and South America) and all ocean basins for the last 70 million years. For example, one group would include the mammals related to an elephant, another group would include carnivorous mammals. Jessica Theodor is holding an elephant’s femur bone. (Riley Brandt/University of Calgary ) "We can now show that it took at least 24 million generations to make the proverbial mouse-to-elephant size change – a massive change, but also a very long time," said Alistair Evans, of Monash University's School of Biological Sciences, who led a team of 20 biologists and paleontologists on the study. "A less dramatic change, such as rabbit-sized to elephant-sized, takes 10 million generations." Size change was tracked in generations rather than years to allow meaningful comparison between species with differing life spans. Changes in whale size occurred at twice the rate of land mammals. "This is probably because it's easier to be big in the water – it helps support your weight," said co-author Erich Fitzgerald, senior curator of vertebrate paleontology at Museum Victoria. Meanwhile, many miniature animals, such as the pygmy mammoth, dwarf hippo and 'hobbit' hominids lived on islands, helping to explain the size reduction. Scientists were surprised to discover how quickly body size decreased — at a rate that is more than 10 times faster than the increases. Jessica Theodor is holding mouse's femur, still attached to the rest of the leg. (Riley Brandt/University of Calgary) "Many of the species which shrunk, such as the dwarf mammoth, dwarf hippo and dwarf hominids, found in the Indonesian island of Flores, became extinct," said co-author Jessica Theodor, a professor of biology at the University of Calgary. Her area of expertise is the artiodactyls, hoofed mammals which include present day, cows, pigs, sheep, camels hippos and whales. "What caused their dwarfism? They may have needed to be small to survive in their environment or perhaps food was scarce and a small stature would require less nutrients," said Theodor. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca