https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/origins-of-nervous-system-found-in-sponges-1.689826
Origins of nervous system found in sponges | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Origins of nervous system found in sponges Social Sharing Technology & Science Origins of nervous system found in sponges Scientists studying the genome of sponges — one of the most primitive and ancient creatures on Earth — have uncovered a significant clue in their search for the evolutionary origins of the nervous system. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jun 06, 2007 10:56 AM ET | Last Updated: June 6, 2007 Scientists studying the genome of sponges — one of the most primitive and ancientcreatures on Earth — have uncovered a significant clue in their search for the evolutionary origins of the nervous system. Researchers at the University of California, Santa Barbara, have discovered that while sponges remain the only multicellular animals without a nervous system, they do possess most of the genetic components of synapses, one of the essential building blocks of a nervous system. The findings were published in the June 6 issue of the journal PLoS ONE, an international open source organization. Synapses are the connecting points that allow nerve cells totransmit signals and facilitate communication, memory and learning. While sponges do not possess synapses, a comparison of the genes of the sponge Amphimedon queenslandica to the genesexpressing a human synapse found striking overlap, suggesting sponges possess many of the building blocks needed to create synapses. Even more surprising, the scientists also found the complex protein structures present in sponges had distinct "signatures," suggesting they probably interact with each other in a manner similar to how information is passed through synapses. Unravelling the origins of the nervous system is key to understanding a vital and complex part of human biology, said senior author Ken Kosik, the co-director of the university's Neuroscience Research Institute. The first neurons and synapses appeared in jellyfish, hydra and sea anemones, a group of invertebrates called cnidarians. Sponges predate these creatures, however, and have no synapses or internal organs. However, their bodies do locally contract in response to touch or pressure. "We look at the evolutionary period between sponges and cnidarians as the period when the nervous system came into existence, about 600 million years ago," said Kosik. "It is clear that evolution was able to take this entire structure, and, with small modifications, direct its use toward a new function," said Kosik. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error External Links PLoS article: A Post-Synaptic Scaffold at the Origin of the Animal Kingdom Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca