https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/planet-hacking-to-control-climate-sparks-controversy-1.1057940
'Planet hacking' to control climate sparks controversy | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news 'Planet hacking' to control climate sparks controversy Social Sharing Technology & Science·Audio 'Planet hacking' to control climate sparks controversy Technologies designed to control climate change by actively altering natural processes such as the Earth's absorption of solar energy are generating a heated debate among scientists, environmentalists and policy makers. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Nov 30, 2011 4:57 PM ET | Last Updated: November 30, 2011 Technologies designed to control climate change by actively altering natural processes such as the Earth's absorption of solar radiation are generating a heated debate among scientists, environmentalists and policy makers. Geoengineering to reduce global warming involves two main approaches: Sucking carbon out of the atmosphere. Blocking sunlight from reaching the Earth. But the actual methods proposed for carrying those out can carry risks, says Eli Kintisch, author of Hack the Planet, a book about the technologies released last year. "I felt that it was important not to try to sugar-coat how extreme some of these techniques are," he said to explain his choice of title. CBC's The Current unpacked the debate from a variety of angles by speaking to: Kintisch, who outlined the types of technologies being proposed. Richard Owen, a business professor at the University of Exeter, who oversaw the governance of SPICE (stratospheric particle injection for climate engineering) – a geoengineering project designed to send particles high into the Earth's atmosphere, as volcanic eruptions do, scattering solar energy away from the surface. Mike Childs, campaigns director for the environmental group Friends of the Earth, which petitioned against the SPICE project. He argues the technology could have "disastrous consequences on weather patterns around the world," risking people's lives and livelihoods. He said the technology is moving ahead without enough debate. David Keith, a former University of Calgary researcher who is now a professor of public policy at Harvard University. He argues that geoengineering, by promising short-term climate results, should benefit the world's poorest, who are impacted first. Cutting carbon won't deliver such immediate results, he said, due to its long-lasting effects on the atmosphere. He added, "Just because something is a band-aid doesn't mean we shouldn't use it when there are people in trouble." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories The Current: The risks of planet hacking Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca