https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/woolly-mammoth-discovery-yields-blood-sample-1.1303148
Woolly mammoth discovery yields blood sample | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Woolly mammoth discovery yields blood sample Social Sharing Technology & Science Woolly mammoth discovery yields blood sample The body of an extinct woolly mammoth discovered on a Siberian island is so well preserved that researchers were able to collect samples of blood that may make it possible test a Canadian researcher's findings suggesting mammoths' blood was specially adapted for life in an icy environment. Social Sharing Russian scientists seek collaboration with Canadian mammoth blood expert CBC News · Posted: May 30, 2013 12:15 PM ET | Last Updated: May 31, 2013 The body of an extinct woolly mammoth discovered on a Siberian island is so well preserved that researchers were able to collect samples of blood from beneath it. The Russian researchers are now hoping to collaborate with a Canadian scientist whose research suggests mammoths' blood was specially adapted for life in an icy environment. Semyon Grigoriev, who led the Russian expedition that recently found the mammoth carcass, has contacted University of Manitoba physiologist Kevin Campbell, who has expressed interest in working with him and his colleagues, said a news release Thursday from the North-Eastern Federal University in Yakutsk, Siberia. Grigoriev is chair of the mammoth museum at the university's Research Institute of Applied Ecology of the North. Read about Kevin Campbell's research on mammoth blood The carcass was found on Maliy Lyakhovsky Island in the Novosibirsk archipelago in the East Siberian Sea by a recent expedition of the Research Institute of Applied Ecology of the North at North-Eastern Federal University in Yakutsk, Siberia, and the Russian Geographical Society. An examination of the mammoth's teeth suggested she was between 50 and 60 years old when she died. Muscles looked like 'fresh meat' The lower part of the female mammoth's body was completely buried in ice, leaving its soft tissues in very good condition, reported Grigoriev. Evidence suggests that mammoths became extinct around 4,000 years ago, although they died out thousands of years earlier throughout much of their range. (Tracy O.) "The fragments of muscle tissues, which we’ve found out of the body, have a natural red colour of fresh meat," according to Grigoriev. That was despite the fact that the carcass had been there for thousands of years. Evidence suggests that mammoths became extinct around 4,000 years ago, although they died out thousands of years earlier throughout much of their range. The researchers also managed to collect blood from ice cavities below the animal's belly. Grigoriev said the blood flowed freely when the researcher broke through the ice, despite the fact that the air temperature was well below the freezing point of water, suggesting that the blood might have some antifreeze-type properties. Thursday's statement from the research institute said that was the part of the discovery of the greatest interest to the researchers. Unique hemoglobin They said are interested in working with Campbell because of an analysis he did of mammoth hemoglobin — the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen — that shows it differs from that of elephant hemoglobin in a way that helps it function better at cold temperatures. That study, which used DNA from a 43,000-year-old mammoth specimen from Siberia to "resurrect" the mammoth hemoglobin protein and analyze it, was published in the journal Nature Genetics in 2010. In the case of the recent mammoth discovery, researchers did not provide an estimate for how long ago the animal died. While the lower part of the body was well preserved, only the bones remained of the upper part of the body, the head and the left hind leg, which were exposed in the middle of the tundra, the researchers said. Grigoriev said the trunk was poorly preserved and found separately from the body. The expedition returned to Yakustk last week with samples of the carcass. They will be examined for potentially dangerous microbes, the researchers said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Woolly mammoth blood protein on display in Manitoba Reviving extinct species within reach, says researcher Should extinct animals like the woolly mammoth be cloned? Russian boy discovers mammoth in Siberian permafrost Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca