https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/ice-age-ecosystem-uncovered-in-colorado-1.882158
Ice Age ecosystem uncovered in Colorado | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Ice Age ecosystem uncovered in Colorado Social Sharing Technology & Science Ice Age ecosystem uncovered in Colorado Scientists say an excavation site in western Colorado is revealing an entire Ice Age ecosystem. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Nov 05, 2010 5:25 PM ET | Last Updated: November 5, 2010 Scientists say an excavation site in western Colorado is revealing an entire Ice Age ecosystem. Crews from the Denver Museum of Nature and Science said Friday that bones from two more kinds of animals have been discovered near the resort town of Snowmass Village — an upper foreleg bone from a giant ground sloth, and the remains of a small deer-like creature. The humerus (upper forelimb bone) of a giant ground sloth discovered Thursday at the Ziegler Reservoir excavation site near Snowmass Village, Colo. ((Rick Wicker, Denver Museum of Nature and Science)) Partial remains of five mastodons, three Ice Age bison and a juvenile Columbian mammoth, as well as plant matter and insects, have also been found. Crews haven't uncovered any human artifacts. Denver Museum of Nature & Science volunteer Jane Peterson excavates a juvenile Columbian mammoth. ((Denver Museum of Nature and Science)) "It is truly uncommon to get all parts of a fossil ecosystem preserved in one place," said Ian Miller, the museum's curator of paleontology and chair of the earth sciences department. "Instead of having just a piece of the ecosystem to tell the story, you've got all aspects of it. It's one of the most exciting scientific discoveries I've ever worked on." The discovery is attracting attention as there are very few sites in North America that contain both mammoth and mastodon remains in one location, according to the Denver museum. It added that the Columbian mammoth unearthed in October also appears to be the most complete mammoth fossil found at high elevation in Colorado. The museum is bringing in more experts, including University of Michigan paleontologist Daniel Fisher, lead curator of a travelling exhibit on mammoths and mastodons assembled by the Field Museum in Chicago. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Fossil mammal trove found in California Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca