http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/newly-discovered-pre-human-walked-near-lucy-1.1162882
Newly discovered pre-human walked near 'Lucy' | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Newly discovered pre-human walked near 'Lucy' Social Sharing Technology & Science Newly discovered pre-human walked near 'Lucy' A new ancient hominin species discovered in Ethiopia appears to add a new branch to the human evolutionary tree. Social Sharing But new species was also a tree climber CBC News · Posted: Mar 28, 2012 2:21 PM ET | Last Updated: March 28, 2012 This is one of the eight foot bones of the new species found in the Afar region of Ethiopia in 2009. (Yohannes Haile-Selassie/Cleveland Museum of Natural History) All about Lucy "Lucy" is the name given to the first partial skeleton ever found of the species Australopithecus afarensis. She was discovered in Ethiopia's Awash Valley in 1974 by U.S. paleoanthropologist Donald C. Johanson and named after the Beatles song Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds. No foot bones were found with her skeleton, but other bones showed she was able to stand upright. Recent analysis of foot bones from another specimen show A. afarensis had feet similar to those of modern humans. A ancient hominin species recently discovered in Ethiopia appears to add a new branch to the human evolutionary tree. Eight foot bones from the yet-to-be named species were discovered in 2009 in the Afar region of Ethiopia, according to a study published Wednesday in Nature. The fossil remains show the new hominin lived 3.4 million years ago — about the same time as and not too far from Australopithecus afarensis, the species of the famous skeleton known as "Lucy." A. afarensis, which walked on two legs, was previously believed to be the only hominin of its time and therefore assumed to be the direct ancestor of modern humans. The study was led by Yohannes Haile-Selassie, a curator at the Cleveland Museum of Natural History. (Yohannes Haile Selassie/Cleveland Museum of Natural History) "We never expected another related species running around," Yohannes Haile-Selassi, lead author of the study, said in a news conference organized by Nature. Haile-Selassi is a curator and head of physical anthropology at the Cleveland Museum of Natural History in Ohio. Surprising 2nd hominin lineage He said the new discovery shows hominin evolution didn't follow a single lineage, contrary to what many scientists previously thought. Like A. afarensis, the new species has characteristic features in two of its joints adapted to walking on two legs – features unique to hominins and not found in apes or monkeys. Hominins and hominids Humans are part of a larger group of closely related human-like species, such as Neanderthals, called hominins. All hominins are themselves part of a larger group known as hominids that includes all the great apes such as chimpanzees and gorillas. But unlike A. afarensis and modern humans, the new hominin has no arch running from its heel to the ball of its foot, and therefore could not have walked long distances. The arch absorbs energy, allowing humans to apply a greater load to each foot while walking or running. The big toe of the new species is also quite different from that of A. afarensis and modern humans. "It has a grasping big toe … which indicates that it was doing quite a bit of climbing," said Bruce Latimer, an anthropologist at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland. In this image, the eight bones of the new hominin are superimposed on the outline of a gorilla foot to show where they would fit. (Johannes Haile-Selassi/Cleveland Museum of Natural History) That makes the foot more similar to the foot of a species called Ardipithecus ramidus, a species that lived a million years earlier. Latimer said the contrast between the foot of the new species and that of A. afarensis hammers home the fact that A. afarensis was "fully committed" to walking on two legs. Haile-Selassi said researchers are hoping to recover more specimens from the new species that will allow them to have a better idea of how it fits in the hominin family tree so they can give it genus and species names. However, he said, despite the new find, it is still likely that modern humans descended from a more recent hominin called Australopithecus garhi, which lived 2.5 million years ago and is probably descended from A. afarensis. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Fossils revise human evolution theories Human ancestors walked 3 million years ago New hominid pushes back date of walking upright Newly found fossils could link to human ancestor External Links Abstract in Nature Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca