http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/rare-dinosaur-fossil-bed-reveals-growth-inside-eggs-1.1300513
Rare dinosaur fossil bed reveals growth inside eggs | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Rare dinosaur fossil bed reveals growth inside eggs Social Sharing Technology & Science Rare dinosaur fossil bed reveals growth inside eggs A Canadian-led group of paleontologists is getting a detailed look at how baby dinosaurs developed inside their eggs, by examining an ancient fossil bed full of embryos. Social Sharing Protein found inside tiny bones Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Apr 10, 2013 1:00 PM ET | Last Updated: April 10, 2013 Robert Reisz, a paleontologist at University of Toronto Mississauga, holds the thigh bone of one of the dinosaur embryos. The nest site contained at least 200 bones ranging from 12 mm to 24 mm. (Diane Scott/University of Toronto Mississauga) A Canadian-led group of paleontologists is getting a detailed look at how baby dinosaurs developed inside their eggs, by examining an ancient fossil bed full of embryos. During the Late Jurassic, about 190 million years ago, huge, long-necked plant-eating dinosaurs called Lufengosaurus gathered together at the site in China's Yunnan province to lay clutches of softball-sized eggs, year after year. An excavation of the site led by Robert Reisz at the University of Toronto Mississauga has yielded crushed eggshells —the oldest dinosaur eggshells ever found — and 200 tiny bones from at least 20 Lufengosaurus embryos, including some that amazingly still appeared to have some protein attached to them, the researchers reported in the journal Nature this week. Evidence suggests that the tiny dinosaurs moved around inside their eggs. (D. Mazierski/University of Toronto Mississauga) Reisz said it appears that Lufengosaurus chose a nesting site close to a river, probably because the sediments there were moist, and some years the nesting site flooded, smothering the embryos. At the time of the dinosaurs, the area had a tropical climate and was likely prone to monsoons during the wet season. The flooding likely occurred at slightly different times each year over a number of years. "The eggs were caught at different stages of development," Reisz said in an interview. "That's what makes this project really exciting." By examining at the thigh bones of embryos of different ages, the researchers could see unusually large cavities for blood vessels and soft tissues, suggesting that they grew faster than other dinosaurs inside their eggs and therefore may have had a shorter incubation period. The researchers could also see that over the course of development, as the thigh bones grew in length from 12 to 22 millimetres, they reshaped by the action of muscles pulling on them. That suggests the embryos moved around inside their eggs as birds do, and similar to the way developing mammals move around inside the womb. Reisz said it's the first time that phenomenon has been documented in a fossil animal. But he thinks the most exciting discovery was the detection of the chemical fingerprint of a protein inside the bones. Taiwanese members of the research team wanted to look for proteins using synchrotron radiation and an infrared spectrometer, a device that looks for the telltale chemical signatures caused by specific molecules absorbing characteristic colours of light. Lufengosaurus could grow to more than nine metres in length. (P. Gilston/University of Toronto Mississauga) Reisz said the bones were so much older than any that had ever yielded any protein before that he was skeptical the Taiwanese researchers would find anything. "Basically, normally, I would not have thought even to try it," he recalled. The protein that was detected is believed likely to be collagen, a common protein found in connective tissues such as bones and tendons. "If this is collagen, then the potential for extracting collagen and comparing to those of living animals really opens a new area of research," Reisz said. In fact, this study represents just the beginning of what the researchers hope to discover from this fossil site. They also plan to examine the anatomy of the eggshells, and use CT scanning to examine the internal structure of the bones in more detail. The fossil bed was located in China's Yunnan province. The field crew and volunteers worked mainly on their hands and knees. (Robert Reisz/University of Toronto Mississauga) CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories COMING UP: Robert Reisz talks to Quirks & Quarks April 13 at noon on CBC Radio One Big dinosaurs' mini eggs helped push them to extinction 190-million-year-old dinosaur nesting site found External Links Summary of the paper Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca