https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/fossils-of-ancient-sea-creature-discovered-1.1137705
Fossils of ancient sea creature discovered | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Fossils of ancient sea creature discovered Social Sharing Technology & Science Fossils of ancient sea creature discovered Canadian researchers have discovered a bizarre flower-like creature which lived in an ancient sea that covered part of Western Canada more than 500 million years ago. Social Sharing Toronto researchers make 500-million-year-old find in Tulip Beds in Canadian Rockies CBC News · Posted: Jan 19, 2012 11:48 AM ET | Last Updated: January 20, 2012 Reconstruction of Siphusauctum gregarium. The animals are shown in life position, standing upright in the water column partially anchored into the sediment by a small holdfast. (Copyright Marianne Collins/ROM/U of T/PLoS One) Canadian researchers have discovered a bizarre flower-like creature which lived in an ancient sea that covered part of Western Canada more than 500 million years ago. The find, published Wednesday in the science journal PLoS One, is based on more than 1,100 fossil specimens from a new locality in the famous Middle Cambrian Burgess Shale, nicknamed the Tulip Beds, situated in the Canadian Rockies. Officially named Siphusauctum gregarium, the tulip-shaped creature is about 20 centimetres long and has a unique filter feeding system. It lived in large clusters as indicated by slabs containing over 65 individual specimens. Researchers from the University of Toronto and the Royal Ontario Museum describe Siphusauctum as having a long stem, with a calyx – a bulbous cup-like structure – near the top that encloses a filter feeding system and a gut. The animal likely fed by filtering particles from water actively pumped into its calyx through small holes. The stem ends with a small disc that anchored the animal to the seafloor. "Most interesting is that this feeding system appears to be unique among animals. Recent advances have linked many bizarre Burgess Shale animals as primitive members of many animal groups that are found today but Siphusauctum defies this trend. We do not know where it fits in relation to other organisms," said lead author Lorna O’Brien, a PhD candidate in the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University of Toronto. The Tulip Beds, located in Yoho National Park, British Columbia, were first discovered in 1983 by the Royal Ontario Museum. Set high on Mount Stephen, overlooking the town of Field, the Beds represent rock layers with exceptional preservation of mostly soft-bodied organisms. The Burgess Shale preserves fossil evidence of some of the earliest complex animals that lived in the planet's oceans nearly 505 million years ago. and the discovery of Siphusauctum expands on the range of animal diversity that existed during this time period. The area is protected under the larger Rocky Mountain Parks UNESCO World Heritage site and managed by Parks Canada. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca