https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/astronauts-take-3rd-final-spacewalk-1.904746
Astronauts take 3rd, final spacewalk | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Astronauts take 3rd, final spacewalk Social Sharing Technology & Science Astronauts take 3rd, final spacewalk A pair of astronauts finished installing a fresh storage tank outside the International Space Station, accomplishing a main mission objective that required three spacewalks. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Apr 13, 2010 7:47 AM ET | Last Updated: April 13, 2010 A pair of astronauts finished installing a fresh storage tank outside the International Space Station on Tuesday, accomplishing a main mission objective that required three spacewalks. Astronauts Rick Mastracchio and Clayton Anderson work in the payload bay of the space shuttle as they prepare to load a virtually empty storage tank to take back to Earth for a refill. ((NASA/Associated Press)) Rick Mastracchio hooked up the fluid lines for the ammonia tank that feeds the station's cooling system, as soon as he and Clayton Anderson floated out early Tuesday morning on the final spacewalk of shuttle Discovery's mission. He was done within minutes. But as flight controllers began activating the tank to join it with the space station's cooling system, a valve appeared to be stuck. The problem was on the nitrogen side of the tank, which is needed to provide pressure to the loops. Engineers were figuring out their next step. At the same time, 350 kilometres above Earth, the spacewalkers struggled with a stubborn bolt on the old ammonia tank, which had been removed on the previous spacewalk. In what almost seems to be a common occurrence on this flight, one of the four bolts on the tank would not engage. Mastracchio and Anderson were trying to secure the boxy, 590-kilogram tank in Discovery's cargo bay when the problem cropped up. It appeared to be a misalignment, and they pulled out a pry bar to try to fix it. The pry bar wasn't needed, but a torque-increasing device was. Mission control told the astronauts that they had to drive in all four bolts all the way, one way or another. "How you guys feeling?" asked shuttle pilot James Dutton Jr. "Just take it easy. No rush here." "I'll feel better when we get this thing bolted in," Mastracchio said. "No kidding," Anderson added. 'Good job' When Mastracchio finally drove in the bolt, astronaut Dorothy Metcalf-Lindenburger shouted, "Now I can finally say good job, we have the ammonia tank in the payload bay." Earlier, she was too quick in offering congratulations. NASA wants to return the old tank to Earth next week, in order to fill it and fly it back up this summer as a spare. The space agency is trying to stockpile as many big parts up there as possible. Only three shuttle missions are left after this one, and there will be limited room on the much smaller Russian, European and Japanese cargo ships that will be supplying the station until its projected end in 2020. President Barack Obama will outline his objectives for NASA's human spaceflight program Thursday during a visit to Kennedy Space Center. He's already axed his predecessor's effort to return astronauts to the moon. The ammonia and nitrogen hoses for the new tank should have been connected during Sunday's spacewalk. But the astronauts had trouble attaching the new tank to the space station because of a stubborn bolt, and some chores had to be put off. At least one chore was scuttled Tuesday because of all the time spent on the latest troublesome bolt. Return to Earth coming At the start of Tuesday's spacewalk, Mastracchio had a little trouble opening the hatch. Mission control asked them to check the handle before they left the air lock. Everything seemed to be in place. Two hours later, Anderson noticed a possible flaw in his left glove. "I've got 51-year-old eyes, but it doesn't look like it's cut," Anderson said. Mission control confirmed through video pictures that the glove was fine. Discovery will depart the space station Saturday and return to Earth on Monday. NASA is keeping the shuttle docked an extra day to move up a survey of the wings and nose, a routine search for micrometeorite damage. The shuttle's main antenna is broken, and so the laser images must be sent down from the station. Normally, the inspection is conducted after a shuttle leaves. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Astronauts take 2nd spacewalk to replace old tank Astronauts take 1st spacewalk of mission Shuttle Discovery arrives at space station Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca