https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/un-biodiversity-talks-struggle-with-rifts-1.921001
UN biodiversity talks struggle with rifts | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news UN biodiversity talks struggle with rifts Social Sharing Technology & Science UN biodiversity talks struggle with rifts Delegates from more than 190 nations kick off a UN conference in Japan aimed at ensuring the survival of diverse species and ecosystems threatened by pollution, exploitation and habitat encroachment. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Oct 18, 2010 9:30 AM ET | Last Updated: October 18, 2010 Delegates gathering in Nagoya for the biodiversity convention's 10th meeting since it was born at the Earth Summit in 1992 will be asked to set 20 measurable targets for the next decade to try to slow or halt species extinctions. ((Nozomu Endo/Kyodo News/Associated Press) ) Delegates from more than 190 nations kicked off a UN conference Monday in Japan aimed at ensuring the survival of diverse species and ecosystems threatened by pollution, exploitation and habitat encroachment. But the two-week marathon talks of the UN Convention on Biological Diversity face some of the same divisions between rich and poor nations over what actions to take that have bogged down global climate negotiations. Scientists warn that unless we start doing more to protect species, extinctions will spike and the intricately interconnected natural world will be damaged with devastating consequences. Nearly half of the 669 different kinds of known primates, including the proboscis monkey, are threatened, largely because of habitat destruction and hunting, says Russ Mittermeier, president of Conservation International. The proboscis monkey lives on Borneo, an island shared by Brunei and parts of Indonesia and Malaysia. ((Mark Baker/Associated Press)) "We're on the verge on the major extinction spasm," said Russ Mittermeier, president of Conservation International and a field biologist who has spent decades studying primates. "Healthy ecosystems are the underpinnings of human development." If one part of the complex network of living organisms disappears — like bees, which perform the critical role of pollination and whose numbers are falling — the whole system can collapse, scientists argue. Delegates gathering in Nagoya, 270 kilometres west of Tokyo, for the convention's 10th meeting since it was born at the Earth Summit in 1992 will be asked to set 20 measurable targets for the next decade to try to slow or halt these trends. "We are now close to a tipping point, that is, we are about to reach a threshold beyond which biodiversity loss will be irreversible, and may cross that threshold in the next 10 years, if we do not make proactive efforts," said Ryu Matsumoto, Japan's minister of environment, in a speech to open the meeting. One of the most attention-getting issues is a proposal to set aside vast tracts of land and ocean as protected areas, although developing nations don't want this to undercut their prospects for economic development. Access to genetic resources contentious Another contentious issue will be trying to create a legal structure to equitably share access and benefits from genetic resources, such as plants that have medicinal value — long a sore point among developing countries. For example, the rosy periwinkle, a plant native to Madagascar, produces two cancer-fighting substances. Western drug companies have grown the plants and profited from them, but little of the money has returned to Madagascar. Developing countries argue they should receive a share of the benefits. The biodiversity convention doesn't have a particularly good track record. It has failed to reach global goals set in 2002 to make improvements in protecting biodiversity by this year. Scientists estimate that the Earth is losing species 100 to 1,000 times the historical average. They warn that's pushing the Earth toward its sixth big extinction phase, the greatest since the dinosaurs were wiped out 65 million years ago. Mittermeier said that in his field, of the 669 different kinds of primates, 49 per cent are threatened, largely because of habitat destruction and hunting. "That's indicative of a real extinction risk," he said. Protection targets sought Under one of the 20 proposed goals for 2020, delegates will seek to agree on a percentage of land and ocean to be designated protected areas, which can range from a strict nature reserve to an area managed for sustainable use of natural resources. If one part of the complex network of living organisms disappears — like bees, which perform the critical role of pollination and whose numbers are falling — the whole system can collapse, scientists argue. The draft text of the final agreement calls for the land percentage to be raised to 15 or 20 per cent, up from about 13 per cent now. But no specific target has surfaced for oceans, of which less than one per cent are currently protected. But even if governments agree on a global figure, implementing the plan is bound to encounter plenty of hurdles, including businesses that don't want to give up access to resources. Some 193 governments have joined the biodiversity convention. Only three have not ratified it: the United States, Andorra and the Holy See. Host country Japan, meanwhile, will be looking to this conference as a chance to portray itself as a protector of biodiversity after helping kill off many of the measures at the CITES, or Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, meeting earlier this year that would have limited the trade in tuna, sharks and other marine species. Tokyo has also come under harsh criticism by environmental groups for its whaling program. "It's a chance for the Japanese government to show that Japan can play a leadership role in marine and biodiversity issues," said Wakao Hanaoka, an ocean campaigner for Greenpeace. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories UN picks 13 new biosphere reserves Planet still losing too many species: UN Extinction risk rises for cod, other species Biodiversity conference targets bio-piracy Losing biodiversity may hurt medical research: UN official External Links Convention on Biological Diversity Convention on Biological Diversity Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca