https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/climate-change-trump-report-1.3845734
If Trump cancels Paris deal, U.S. emissions will stay flat through 2030, scientists say | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news If Trump cancels Paris deal, U.S. emissions will stay flat through 2030, scientists say Social Sharing Technology & Science If Trump cancels Paris deal, U.S. emissions will stay flat through 2030, scientists say In the past year "national climate policies have made little progress, and the road ahead looks even less clear after the results of the U.S. presidential elections," three European scientific groups said in a report of global trends. Social Sharing Report: 'The road ahead looks even less clear after the results of the U.S. presidential elections' Thomson Reuters · Posted: Nov 10, 2016 2:32 PM ET | Last Updated: November 10, 2016 Donald Trump's election has climate scientists worried the future of the Paris climate deal. (Mike Segar/Reuters) comments Donald Trump's election as U.S. president muddies the outlook for efforts to cut greenhouse gases and could mean U.S. emissions stay flat until 2030, compared with deep cuts planned by President Barack Obama, scientists said on Thursday. Republican Trump, who has called climate change a "hoax" and is expected to favour the coal and oil industries, opposes last year's Paris Agreement by almost 200 nations to combat global warming. Trump later claimed the hoax comment was a joke. The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive. &mdash;@realDonaldTrump In the past year "national climate policies have made little progress, and the road ahead looks even less clear after the results of the U.S. presidential elections," three European scientific groups said in a report of global trends. Trump win a 'disaster' for fighting climate change: scientists Growing fears Trump would scrap Paris climate deal With 'whisk of a pen' Trump could override key climate change initiatives, warns scientist "If President Trump abandons current policies as he has threatened to do, we estimate that in 2030, U.S. emissions will be similar to what they are today," said Niklas Hoehne, of NewClimate Institute, one of the research groups. Obama promised in Paris to cut U.S. greenhouse gas emissions by between 26 and 28 per cent by 2025 from 2005 levels. U.S. data show emissions were down nine per cent in 2014, compared to 2005. 'Huge uncertainties' A Climate Action Tracker compiled by the researchers, issued at UN talks on climate change in Marrakesh, projected that existing policies including Obama's would lead to a warming in global temperatures of 2.8 C above pre-industrial times by 2100. That is fractionally above a projected 2.7 C rise in average surface temperatures estimated a year ago, largely due to technical revisions. Current policies need to be ratcheted up to achieve a goal set in Paris of limiting global warming to "well below" 2C by curbing a build-up of man-made greenhouse gases blamed for causing downpours, heatwaves and rising seas, the scientists said. Cuts promised in Paris deal not nearly enough It was too early to say how Trump's policies might affect the global outlook, they added. His election "would increase our [global] temperature estimate, but there are huge uncertainties," Hoehne said. Still, the study said a shift to renewable energies was likely to continue thanks to factors such as falling prices of solar power and wind power and improved ranges for electric vehicles. "Provided political leaders globally maintain their commitment to action, these tailwinds mean we should be able to ride through the turbulence that a climate sceptic in the White House could bring," Bill Hare, CEO of Climate Analytics, said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories With 'whisk of a pen' Trump could override key climate change initiatives, warns scientist Trump win the 'most miserable U.S. election result' for fighting climate change, scientists say Australia ratifies greenhouse gas targets set in Paris Justin Trudeau invites Donald Trump to visit Canada in call that marks 'strong beginning' Conservative candidates split over carbon tax, immigration policy Analysis What we know about Trump and his energy policy Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca