https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/falcon-9-rocket-reaches-orbit-1.865832
Falcon 9 rocket reaches orbit | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Falcon 9 rocket reaches orbit Social Sharing Technology & Science Falcon 9 rocket reaches orbit The Falcon 9 rocket has successfully achieved orbit, a key part of an ambitious effort by private space company SpaceX to take over from NASA once the shuttle stops flying. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jun 04, 2010 10:02 AM ET | Last Updated: June 4, 2010 The Falcon 9 rocket was successfully launched into orbit Friday — a key part of an ambitious effort by private space company SpaceX to fill the void once the space shuttle stops flying. U.S. President Barack Obama, with jacket over his shoulder, walks near the SpaceX Falcon 9 launch vehicle with Elon Musk of SpaceX, right, at Kennedy Space Center, Fla., on April 15. ((Alex Brandon/Associated Press)) After several holds, the rocket blasted off on its first flight at 2:45 p.m. ET from the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida. Nine minutes later, the SpaceX website reported it had reached Earth orbit. "All in all, this has been a good day for SpaceX," launch commentator Robyn Ringuette said at the company's headquarters in Hawthorne, Calif. The space community was quick to acknowledge the achievement. "Today's flight of Falcon 9 could be the first small step toward relieving NASA launchers of the burden of low-Earth orbit, thus freeing the U.S. space agency to reach new worlds," said the Planetary Society in a statement. The 55-metre-high Falcon 9 rocket carried an unmanned mockup cargo capsule — named Dragon — into a low-Earth orbit. Dragon will stay there for a year before it re-enters the atmosphere and burns up. NASA hopes to use Falcon 9 rockets and its Dragon capsule to ferry cargo and perhaps eventually astronauts to the International Space Station once the shuttle program ends later this year. SpaceX says astronaut flights could follow within three years of the company getting a contract. Contract for 12 missions NASA awarded SpaceX a $1.6 billion US contract in late 2008 to resupply the space station. The contract calls for a minimum of 12 flights, but there's an option to order more flights, which could boost the contract's value to $3.1 billion US. Friday's launch was the first of three test flights for NASA. The first supply mission to the space station could take place next year. SpaceX was founded eight years ago by Elon Musk, the multimillionaire co-founder of the PayPal electronic payment system. It's had its share of successes and failures — not unusual in the high-risk business of space flight. SpaceX needed four tries before it was finally able to get its two-stage Falcon 1 rocket into orbit in 2008. One of the failed attempts resulted in the loss of three government satellites and human ashes, including the remains of astronaut Gordon Cooper and Star Trek actor James Doohan, when the rocket's first stage bumped into the second stage after separation. SpaceX has spent $400 million US on developing its Falcon rocket program. Musk said a new version of the Falcon 9 is already under development. SpaceX isn't the only private company trying to tap into the commercial space launch market. Virginia-based Orbital Sciences Corp. has also signed a development contract with NASA to deliver cargo to the space station using its new Taurus rocket. With files from The Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Internet entrepreneur successfully launches rocket on 4th try Quirks & Quarks: Who'll fly humans to space? External Links SpaceX company site Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca