http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/bison-fossils-people-1.3619065
Ancient bison fossils offer hints about 1st humans in southern Canada | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Ancient bison fossils offer hints about 1st humans in southern Canada Social Sharing Technology & Science Ancient bison fossils offer hints about 1st humans in southern Canada The fossils of bison that roamed near what is now Edmonton 13,000 years ago are helping solve the mystery of the earliest humans in southern Canada, including how and when they got there and where they came from. Social Sharing Ice-free corridor through Alberta became habitable, opened to travel 13,000 to 13,400 years ago Emily Chung · CBC News · Posted: Jun 06, 2016 5:42 PM ET | Last Updated: June 7, 2016 During the ice age, humans both north and south of the ice sheet were known to follow and hunt bison. They were closely related to modern bison, like the one above, but were about 30 per cent larger. (Yukon government) comments The fossils of bison that roamed near what is now Edmonton 13,000 years ago are helping solve the mystery of the earliest humans in southern Canada, including how and when they got there and where they came from. The new analysis suggests that for bison, southern Alberta, which had previously been covered in a massive ice sheet, started becoming a nice place to live around 13,400 years ago. Around 13,000 years ago, it became a place where bison that once lived north of the ice sheet could meet and mingle with bison that once lived south of the ice sheet, according to a report from U.S. and Canadian researchers in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences today. 'Critical era of human prehistory' "Any place that one would find bison, one would have to strongly suspect, that human beings could be present too," said University of Alberta archeologist Jack Ives, who co-authored the study. That offers some hints as to what humans may have been doing in the same landscape at the same time, he added. "This shines some light on a critical era of human prehistory." Duane Froese, the University of Alberta researcher who coordinated the study, holds a fossil bison skull. The researchers analyzed about 190 bison fossils. (Duane Froese/University of Alberta) During the last ice age, most of Canada was an inhospitable land covered in a kilometres-thick ice sheets, barren of vegetation and animals. There's lots of archeological evidence that during that ice age, humans lived north of the ice sheet, in Alaska and the Yukon. Uninhabitable corridor? As the climate warmed and the ice sheet melted, an ice-free corridor opened up through central Alberta. For decades, scientists argued about how long it was before that freshly de-iced, muddy landscape would become habitable to humans, allowing them to migrate into the rest of North America. More recently, scientists have found evidence of humans living south of the ice sheet in places like Florida as far back as 14,550 years ago, suggesting that they got there through another route. A map from the paper shows the genetic 'clades' of bison fossils found in western North America from a) more than 23,000 years ago, before the ice sheet was fully formed, b) 23,000 to 13,500 years ago, when the ice sheet covered most of Canada, c) when the ice-free corridor formed 13,500 to 12,000 years ago, and d) after the end of the ice age, 12,000 years ago. Clade 1a represents bison from south of the ice sheet, while the other clades lived north of the ice sheet. (Andre Soares and Robin Woywitka/US National Park Service and US Geological Survey/PNAS) In fact, the earliest human artifacts from southern Alberta date back to around 13,300 years ago. They include thousands of spear points, arrowheads and ancient animal bones, including camels, horses, muskox and bison, found by a schoolteacher at St. Mary's Reservoir in 1996 and later determined to belong to a mysterious culture from a period of time that archeologists know very little about. Alberta camel-hunting site points to mysterious people But questions about the ice-free corridor — when it opened up and allowed humans and animals to live in southern Alberta and to travel between the north and south — still remained. The researchers decided to try and answer that question by looking at bison remains. Both northern and southern groups of people were known to follow bison. "They were definitely on the menu in Alaska 14,000 years ago and certainly were on the menu south of the ice mass," Ives said. Genetically distinct Where there were bison, there were also other tasty animals such as camels and horses, along with predators such as lions. The researchers decided to analyze the bison fossils rather than other species because of a genetic quirk — bison in the north and bison in the south were separated from one another by the ice sheet for thousands of years, and were known to be genetically distinct. That would allow the researchers to determine exactly when the two populations reunited, revealing when the corridor was completely open to the movement of bison. University of Alberta researcher Duane Froese, who coordinated the study, gathered about 190 bison fossils, mostly from the Royal Alberta Museum, and carbon dated them. Peter Heintzman, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of California, Santa Cruz, and the lead author of the report, conducted a DNA analysis to show which fossils came from the northern and southern populations of bison. The researchers used carbon dating to determine the age of the fossils, and DNA evidence to figure out whether each belonged the northern or southern bison populations. (Yukon Government) The results show that southern bison started moving north around 13,400 years ago and that the two populations began overlapping in the corridor around 13,000 years ago. "These two groups were meeting here in Edmonton," Froese said. He added that while previously, scientists had assumed most populations moved from north to south, the evidence showed movement in both directions. Ives added, "It's intriguing from the perspective that as much as bison and game animals were separated, so too would have been early human populations, Once that corridor region opened … this would open the door for human populations to reengage." He's using the new evidence to help plan what to look for on future archeological digs in the region. Camel-hunting site points to mysterious prehistoric people CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Alberta camel-hunting site points to mysterious prehistoric people Underwater archaeology confirms early humans in Americas Ancient Arctic camel offers climate change clues Where Arctic camels once roamed, coal mining can wait Mastodons disappeared from Yukon before humans arrived: study Aboriginal people may have lived on Beringia for millenia Ancient toddler's remains re-ignite native origins debate External Links Summary of the paper in PNAS Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca