http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/sea-level-rise-is-accelerating-1.3070635
Sea level rise is accelerating | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Sea level rise is accelerating Social Sharing Technology & Science Sea level rise is accelerating Sea levels over the past two decades have risen faster than previously thought, suggests a new study that reassesses the accuracy of satellite data. Social Sharing Previous data suggesting slower rise contained errors, study suggests Australian Broadcasting Corporation · Posted: May 12, 2015 8:48 AM ET | Last Updated: May 13, 2015 John Englander, author of High Tide on Main Street, points to the implications of how fast water levels rise 7:10 comments Sea levels over the past two decades have risen faster than previously thought, suggests a new study that reassesses the accuracy of satellite data. The study by an international team of scientists, published Monday in Nature Climate Change , compares satellite records of sea levels made from 1993 to mid-2014 to tide gauge records. Full paper in Nature Climate Change Lead author and geophysicist Christopher Watson says the study results address an ongoing puzzle about sea level rise. Previous studies based on tide gauge or satellite data alone have suggested a slowing in the rate of sea level rise over the past decade relative to the one before it. "That was a puzzle because it coincides with a period where we've got increasing water from West Antarctica and Greenland," says Watson, senior lecturer at the University of Tasmania. But comparison of the satellite and hourly tide gauge data, factoring in the land movements around those gauges, suggests that sea levels have risen faster since 1993 relative to slower rate in previous decades. Errors in satellite record corrected The study also corrects long-standing errors in the satellite record of sea levels, finding that the global mean rate of sea level rise between 1993 and mid-2014 is between 2.6 and 2.9 millimetres per year. Previous studies overestimated the average annual rate of sea level rise over the period. Most of this overestimation of sea level rise occurred earlier in the record, from 1993 to1999, which distorted the bigger picture, and concealed the trend of accelerating sea level rise. The measurement errors, known as 'bias drift', could be due to degradation of the electronics in the first satellite in the series, called Topex Poseidon, Watson says, although work is continuing to establish the cause. The degree of difference between the original and revised measurements is only around 10 to 15 per cent — amounting to differences of 0.9 to 1.5 millimetres per year — but it paints a revised picture of a recent acceleration in sea level rise, which is much closer to predictions. With only just over two decades of satellite monitoring, the fluctuations in sea level could just be the result of annual variability, but the data suggests a trend is emerging, says Watson. "What our revised record really does indicate is an acceleration and that is consistent with the projections of sea level from IPCC [Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change]," says Watson. The IPCC forecast global sea levels to rise up to 98 centimetres by 2100 — if greenhouse gases continue unabated — or between 28 and 61 centimetres if emissions are mitigated. An acceleration in the rate of global sea level rise could have significant impacts on coastal regions, says Watson. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Halifax sea levels spiked by 11cm in two years Rising sea levels could make Florida residents 'climate refugees' Climate change impacts 'might already be considered dangerous' 2012 broke sea level, sea ice records, climate report shows External Links Summary of the paper in Nature Climate Change Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca