https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/4-footed-animals-emerged-earlier-than-thought-researchers-1.866807
4-footed animals emerged earlier than thought: researchers | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news 4-footed animals emerged earlier than thought: researchers Social Sharing Technology & Science 4-footed animals emerged earlier than thought: researchers The water-dwelling ancestors of modern-day mammals, reptiles and birds emerged onto land millions of years earlier than previously believed, according to Polish researchers. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Jan 06, 2010 3:50 PM ET | Last Updated: January 6, 2010 The water-dwelling ancestors of modern-day mammals, reptiles and birds emerged onto land millions of years earlier than previously believed, according to Polish researchers. A set of fossilized footprints suggest that the first tetrapods — a term applied to any four-footed animal with a spine — were treading on open ground 397 million years ago, well before the period scientists thought they existed. An expert unconnected with the research said the find would force scientists to reconsider a critical period in evolution when sea-based vertebrates took their first steps toward becoming dinosaurs, mammals and — eventually — human beings. "It blows the whole story out of the water, so to speak," said Jenny Clack, a paleontologist at Cambridge University. The work appears in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. Until now, scientists thought they understood the evolution from fin to foot fairly well. The earliest tetrapods had been traced to 385 million years ago. Experts theorized that they had split from their close relatives, a fleshy-finned family of fish, a few million years earlier and then gone on to conquer land. But the new fossil footprints — uncovered between 2002 and 2007 in a disused quarry in central Poland — push the timing back by several million years, according to Grzegorz Pienkowski, the scientific director of the Polish Geological Institute in Warsaw. He said the fossils had been securely dated from the deposits they were found with. Deciphering the footprints Although at least some of the footprints may have been made in shallow water, paleontologist Per Ahlberg, one of the article's co-authors, said it was nevertheless clear from the shape of the toe prints and the nature of the sediment that the animals spent time walking around on land. "We know from [the] site that you have rain drop prints and mud cracks in the sediment," he said, noting also that the prints appeared far too crisp to have been made underwater. While the find is important, it also challenges the commonly accepted notion that tetrapods colonized the surface from lakes or river beds. Ahlberg and his colleagues argued that the footprints were first created in what was probably a lagoon-like environment at the time, adding that a coastal location made sense because shifting tides could strand small marine animals, giving our fishy forebears an incentive to explore open land. Although she acknowledged their importance, Clack warned against drawing conclusions based exclusively on small marks left by animals on the bottom of a muddy surface hundreds of millions of years ago. She said it would be critical to see fossil evidence of the creature that made the footprints before coming to any definitive conclusion on exactly how, when and where vertebrates came to colonize the earth's surface. New thinking Still, she said the new fossils would force scientists — herself included — to reconsider what it was that originally turned fish into land-lovers. She said some theorized that tetrapods originally went ashore to lay their eggs out of reach of water-going predators or that their ancestors grew legs to scurry from pool to pool. She said she had personally favoured the notion that fish emerged from oxygen-deprived waters in order, quite literally, to catch their breath. All those theories were called into question by the Polish find, she said. It wouldn't be logical for fish to lay their eggs in a place where the tide would wash right over them, for example, and the pool-hopping behaviour wouldn't make sense in a coastal environment. As for her oxygen hypothesis, Clack said, "that's probably out the window." The fossils suggested that tetrapods evolved well before marine oxygen levels started to drop, she said. Ahlberg said paleontologists were already scouring the area for more evidence of footprints — and fossils of the animals themselves. "Obviously, the hunt is on," he said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Discovery of early meat-eating dinosaur redraws family tree Crocodile ancestors found in Sahara Fossils belong to smallest dinosaur Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca