http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/canada-pledges-300-million-to-green-climate-fund-1.2845148
Canada pledges $300 million to Green Climate Fund | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Canada pledges $300 million to Green Climate Fund Social Sharing Technology & Science Canada pledges $300 million to Green Climate Fund Canada will contribute $300 million to the Green Climate Fund, which helps developing countries address climate change. Social Sharing Fund falls short of $10 billion goal to help developing countries The Canadian Press · Posted: Nov 21, 2014 3:44 PM ET | Last Updated: November 21, 2014 Environment Minister Leona Aglukkaq says Canada will contribute $300 million to the Green Climate Fund. The fund has so far fallen short of its $10 billion goal. (Sean Kilpatrick/Canadian Press) comments Canada will contribute $300 million to the Green Climate Fund, which helps developing countries address climate change, Environment Minister Leona Aglukkaq said Thursday afternoon. Earlier that day, the U.N. announced that the fund had fallen short, for now, of its target of collecting $10 billion. At that time, German environment minister Barbara Hendricks said Canada had made a surprise announcement that it would contribute but had not yet said how much. About 30 countries meeting in Berlin pledged a total of $9.3 billion toward the Green Climate Fund, according to Germany's development ministry, which co-hosted the conference. Last week, the U.S. pledged $3 billion, the biggest amount so far. Britain announced Thursday it would give 720 million pounds ($1.13 billion). Japan, Germany and France also have given $1 billion or more. Despite the shortfall, Hendricks said she was satisfied by the result because some countries had indicated they would increase their contribution in the coming months. "I'm confident that we will reach the $10 billion goal," she told reporters. "$9.3 billion is already pretty close." Australia, Austria, Belgium offer nothing so far Campaign group Oxfam described the amount collected so far as "only a bare minimum," noting that rich countries such as Australia, Austria and Belgium hadn't offered anything yet. Germany's development minister, Gerd Mueller, said the fund would start disbursing money toward the middle or end of next year. "If humans want to avoid the fate of dinosaurs, then we need to act now, immediately," he said. The fund is meant to help vulnerable developing nations adjust to rising seas, warmer temperatures and more extreme weather. The money will also be used to help those countries develop clean energy sources that reduce the use of greenhouse gas-emitting coal, oil and gas. Governments agreed at a 2009 summit in Copenhagen to seek a total of $100 billion for measures to rein in climate change and dampen its impact. Aglukkaq noted that Canada had previously made $1.2 billion in contributions to another climate program targeted at the developing world, the Fast-Start Financing Initiative. She says the Canadian government is committed to establishing a fair international climate change agreement at a major conference in Paris next year. Canada wants all major greenhouse gas emitters to agree to binding obligations in that agreement. With files from the Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Analysis U.S.-China climate deal poses special challenge for G20-bound PM G20 commits to boosting economic growth, fighting climate change Ontario, Quebec sign deals on electricity, climate change 'Hottest year' record likely for 2014 after warmest October Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca