http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/neanderthals-humans-didn-t-make-whoopee-study-says-1.1256007
Neanderthals, humans didn't make whoopee, study says | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Neanderthals, humans didn't make whoopee, study says Social Sharing Technology & Science Neanderthals, humans didn't make whoopee, study says Primitive Homo sapiens and Neanderthals didn't produce children together despite swaths of shared DNA, some scientists say, casting doubt in a new study on a contentious idea about the origin of modern humans. Social Sharing Interbreeding theory challenged despite evidence of shared DNA CBC News · Posted: Aug 15, 2012 12:55 PM ET | Last Updated: August 17, 2012 A hyper-realistic face of a Neanderthal man is displayed. A new British study casts doubt on the theory that the ancestors of modern humans, Homo sapiens, interbred with Neanderthals. (Nikola Solic/Reuters) Primitive Homo sapiens and Neanderthals didn't produce children together despite swaths of shared DNA, some scientists say, casting doubt in a new study on a contentious idea about the origin of modern humans. Anthropologists who found that humans with non-African lineage shared up to four per cent of their DNA with the long-extinct Neanderthals concluded in 2010 that the link was likely due to hybridization — or sex between the two hominid species. But researchers at the University of Cambridge said this week that computer models simulating the last 500,000 years of population migration offered a different interpretation of how we came to share DNA with our ancient cousins. The researchers say the DNA crossover is actually a remnant from a common ancestor from half a million years ago, not a result of Homo sapiens and Neanderthals interbreeding. This common ancestor lived in parts of Africa and Europe, but divided into separate populations in Europe and Africa around 300,000 to 500,000 years ago, according to the latest study. 2 divergent groups from common ancestor The researchers theorize that once both ancient groups were geographically isolated, the African population evolved into Homo sapiens while the European range eventually became Neanderthals. Homo sapiens were believed to have emerged from Africa around 70,000 years ago. Based on the computer models, Cambridge evolutionary biologists Dr. Anders Eriksson and Dr. Andrea Manica concluded there was no compelling evidence to suggest any sort of fling between Neanderthals and Homo sapiens. "Our work shows clearly that the patterns currently seen in the Neanderthal genome are not exceptional, and are in line with our expectations of what we would see without hybridization," Manica said in a news release. "So, if any hybridization occurred — it's difficult to conclusively prove it never happened — then it would have been minimal and much less than what people are claiming now." That hasn't put the debate to rest, however. David Reich, a Harvard Medical School professor of genetics who co-authored the 2010 study supporting hybridization, argued that population diversity isn't enough to explain the shared genes. Last week, Reich and his colleagues even published a draft paper that further analyzed the genetic variants shared between Neanderthals and non-African humans. The analysis put the introduction of Neanderthal DNA at just a few tens of thousands of years ago. If the dates are correct, that would mean that the emergence of the DNA was so recent it could only have showed up after modern humans migrated from Africa, and after the origin of Neanderthals 320,000 years ago. The paper supporting interbreeding is scheduled for publication in the journal PLoS Genetics, while the University of Cambridge study is published in the latest edition of the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Science. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories QUIRKS & QUARKS: Hybrid humans Sex with Neanderthals boosted human immunity Humans, Neanderthals got it on IDEAS: Homo (Sapiens) Neanderthalensis, Part 1 & 2 QUIRKS & QUARKS: Neanderthals in the family New genome shows Neanderthal trace in humans Researchers unlock secrets of Neanderthal DNA Audio How to think like a Neanderthal External Links Proceedings of the National Academy of Science Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca