https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/mock-mars-mission-includes-chef-training-1.1202141
Mock Mars mission includes chef training | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Mock Mars mission includes chef training Social Sharing Technology & Science Mock Mars mission includes chef training Aspiring astronauts and other eager adventurers willing to spend four months on the barren lava fields of Hawaii's Big Island are being invited to apply to take part in a study of how astronauts might eat on a mission on Mars. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Feb 21, 2012 1:36 PM ET | Last Updated: February 21, 2012 Wanted: "Astronauts" for a four-month "mission on Mars." Must be willing to cook. That's the essence of a proposition being offered by NASA and the Canadian Space Agency, which are seeking Canadian and American volunteers to take part in a study of how astronauts might eat on a mission on Mars. The six recruits will spend four months in early 2013 isolated on the barren lava fields of Mauna Loa on Hawaii's Big Island — an environment designed to mimic the surface of Mars, with no access to food in the local environment. Six volunteers will spend four months isolated on the barren lava fields of Mauna Loa on the Big Island of Hawaii in early 2013. (Chris Stewart/Associated Press) Their only communication with the outside world will be delayed electronic correspondence, and they will have to wear simulated space suits whenever they go outside. Jean Hunter, a Cornell University researcher involved in the study, said she expects food to be very important in that kind of setting. "They can't go out and feel the wind on their faces, they won't have plants, they won't smell the flowers," she told CBC Saskatchewan's The Morning Edition radio show Tuesday. "So, the food has to provide a lot more variety in their overall life than food does for most of us." She added that not eating well is particularly dangerous for astronauts, because the bone loss and decline in fitness that happen in lower-gravity environments such as Mars or space occur more quickly without proper nutrition. The volunteers will eat a mix of pre-packaged instant foods — like those eaten by astronauts at the International Space Station — and foods that they cook themselves from bulk ingredients. Prior to the mission, they will receive training from a chef on how to cook using those types of ingredients. Researchers at Cornell and the University of Hawaii want to compare whether the volunteers eat better with one type of food than the other and whether the cooked foods use up a lot more resources, such as time and water. Those kinds of experiments can't be done at the International Space Station because of the lack of gravity. "The food won't stay in the pan," Hunter said. That forces astronauts at the space station to eat a limited selection of pre-packaged meals that get boring and less appetizing after a while. However, Mars has about 40 per cent of the gravity of the Earth, making cooking more feasible. Volunteers will be screened and selected by NASA and the Canadian Space Agency, which are accepting applications until Feb. 29. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Mars mission simulation ends after 520 days Mock Mars crew 'lands' after 257 days External Links Apply for the mission Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca