https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/fragmenting-arctic-ice-shelf-a-sign-of-warming-temperatures-scientist-1.738033
Fragmenting Arctic ice shelf a sign of warming temperatures: scientist | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Fragmenting Arctic ice shelf a sign of warming temperatures: scientist Social Sharing Technology & Science Fragmenting Arctic ice shelf a sign of warming temperatures: scientist The fracture of a four-square-kilometre chunk of ice from the largest remaining ice shelf in the Arctic last week is a one-way change brought on by warming temperatures, says a scientist who has studied the process. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 29, 2008 1:59 PM ET | Last Updated: July 29, 2008 The fracture of a four-square-kilometre chunk of ice from the largest remaining ice shelf in the Arctic last week is a one-way change brought on by warming temperatures, says a scientist who has studied the process. Derek Mueller, a polar scientist and research fellow at Trent University, in Peterborough, Ont., said the ice breaking off from the Ward Hunt Island Ice Shelf, just north of Ellesmere Island, marks the continuation of a process that has been years in the making. "Ice shelves don't just break up. There's no karate chop," he said. "This is the result of a gradual weakening over time as a result of warming temperatures." Mueller said the changes in the shelf, which surrounds Ward Hunt Island off the north coast of Ellesmere, provide further evidence the planet, and in particular the North, is warming due to climate change. An expedition by U.S. explorer Robert Peary in 1906 put the size of the Ellesmere Island Ice Shelf at just under 9,000 square kilometres. The ice shelf has since broken up into smaller pieces, the largest of which is the Ward Hunt Island Shelf. The total area of all of these pieces is now less than 900 square kilometres. No winter renewal of ice shelf Mueller said if year-to-year warming wasn't occurring, Arctic researchers would have been able to detect some renewal of ice during the winter months, either through thickening of the ice or the spread of the shelves. But researchers haven't seen any sign of renewal, he said. "This is a one-way change," he said. Mueller was part of the team of polar researchers that first discovered in 2002 a large central crack in the ice shelf, which had occurred between 2000 and 2002. An expedition alongside Canadian Rangers on a patrol around Ellesmere Island in April 2008 found an 18-kilometre crack along the shelf, a further sign that fragmentation was likely. "Ice shelf integrity was lost in 2002," said Mueller. The 2002 fissure was blamed for the draining of an epishelf lake in Disraeli Fjord. Epishelf lakes are a unique ecosystem with both lighter freshwater and denser saltwater, with the freshwater component kept away from the ocean by the ice shelf while the bottom layer of seawater can mix with ocean water. The ecosystem is home to a unique mix of zooplankton and other tiny life forms. Mueller said the next major epishelf lake potentially under threat in the region is the Milne epishelf lake, which is bound in the Milne fjord by the Milne Ice Shelf, the second-largest remnant of the Ellesmere Island Ice Shelf. The ice island that formed last week is the largest to form off Canada's northern coast since the 2005 collapse of the Ayles Ice Shelf, which lay between the Milne and Ward Hunt Island shelves. The ice island that subsequently formed had a surface area of about 66 square kilometres. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Cracks in Arctic ice shelves even worse than feared: scientist Northernmost lake shows signs of global warming Ecosystem changes in North focus of new network Huge ice shelf in Canadian North splits Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca