http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/dinosaur-brain-tissue-fossil-1.3823910
Scientists identify 1st fossilized dinosaur brain tissue | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Scientists identify 1st fossilized dinosaur brain tissue Social Sharing Technology & Science Scientists identify 1st fossilized dinosaur brain tissue When fossil hunter Jamie Hiscocks came across a small brown pebble more than a decade ago in Sussex, England, he knew there was something weird about it. Turns out, it's dinosaur brain. Social Sharing Soft tissue probably 'pickled' in swamp or bog water, researchers say CBC News · Posted: Oct 27, 2016 1:00 PM ET | Last Updated: October 27, 2016 It might look like a tiny rock, but it's actually dinosaur brain. (Jamie Hiscock) comments When fossil hunter Jamie Hiscocks came upon a small brown pebble more than a decade ago in Sussex, England, he knew there was something weird about it. Turns out he was right — his 2004 find marked the first ever discovery of fossilized dinosaur brain tissue. "I have always believed I had something special. I noticed there was something odd about the preservation, and soft tissue preservation did go through my mind," Hiscocks said in a press release from the University of Cambridge in Britain. Dinosaurs of a feather flocked together, U of A study finds Dinosaurs likely didn't roar, new research suggests Martin Brasier, a University of Oxford paleobiologist who helped study the strange fossil, agreed. He died in 2014 and a study of the brain fossil was published in tribute to him Thursday in the Special Publication of the Geological Society of London. "Martin realized its potential significance right at the beginning, but it wasn't until years later that its true significance came to be realized," Hiscocks said. "In his initial email to me, Martin asked if I'd ever heard of dinosaur brain cells being preserved in the fossil record. I knew exactly what he was getting at. I was amazed to hear this coming from a world renowned expert like him." Amateur fossil hunter makes historic discovery 0:42 Conditions 'just right' for preservation In conjunction with the University of Western Australia researchers, researchers used scanning electron microscope techniques to identify tough membranes, strands of collagen and blood vessels in the fossil. The brain structure is similar to that of modern-day birds and crocodiles, which makes sense because those are the descendents of dinosaurs. How dinosaurs shrank into birds "What's truly remarkable is that conditions were just right in order to allow preservation of the brain tissue," said David Norman, a paleobiologist from the University of Cambridge who co-authored the study with Hiscocks. Scientists believe the brain bit belongs to a species similar to the Iguanodon — a large herbivore dinosaur that walked the Earth some 133 million years ago. Scientists say the brain tissue is likely from a a large herbivorous dinosaur from the Early Cretaceous Period about 133 million years ago. (University of Cambridge ) They figure its brain tissue was "pickled" in swamp or bog water after it died. "What we think happened is that this particular dinosaur died in or near a body of water, and its head ended up partially buried in the sediment at the bottom," Norman said. "Since the water had little oxygen and was very acidic, the soft tissues of the brain were likely preserved and cast before the rest of its body was buried in the sediment." Norman said he hopes "this is the first of many such discoveries." Dinosaur footprint fossil found in Nova Scotia CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Dinosaurs of a feather flocked together, University of Alberta study finds Q&A Dinosaurs likely didn't roar, new research suggests 200-million-year-old dinosaur footprint fossil found in Nova Scotia Scientists decipher colour of 'super cute' bristly dinosaur, Psittacosaurus Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca