http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/russian-boy-discovers-mammoth-in-siberian-permafrost-1.1265765
Russian boy discovers mammoth in Siberian permafrost | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Russian boy discovers mammoth in Siberian permafrost Social Sharing Technology & Science Russian boy discovers mammoth in Siberian permafrost An 11-year-old boy in Russia has discovered the remains of teenage mammoth that once roamed the Siberian tundra in search of fodder and females. Social Sharing Carcass is the best-preserved find since 1901 discovery The Associated Press · Posted: Oct 05, 2012 4:04 PM ET | Last Updated: October 5, 2012 Russian scientists say the carcass of a 16-year-old mammoth that was excavated on the North Siberian Taimyr peninsula is one of the best-preserved bodies of a grown mammoth ever found. (Sergei Gorbunov/International Mammoth Committee in Russia/Associated Press) An 11-year-old boy in Russia has discovered the remains of teenage mammoth that once roamed the Siberian tundra in search of fodder and females. The creature might have been killed by an Ice Age man on a summer day tens of thousands of years ago, a Russian scientist said Friday. Prof. Alexei Tikhonov of the Zoology Institute in St. Petersburg announced the finding of the mammoth, which was excavated from the Siberian permafrost in late September near the Sopochnaya Karga cape, 3,500 kilometres northeast of Moscow. The 16-year-old mammoth has been named Jenya, after the boy who found the animal's limbs sticking out of the frozen mud. The mammoth was 2 metres tall and weighed 500 kilograms. "He was pretty small for his age," Tikhonov told the Associated Press. But what killed Jenya was not his size but a missing left tusk that made him unfit for fights with other mammoths or human hunters who were settling the Siberian marshes and swamps some 20,000-30,000 years ago, Tikhonov said. The splits on Jenya's remaining tusk show a "possible human touch," he added. Driven to extinction by humans, climate The examination of Jenya's body has already proved that the massive humps on mammoths seen on Ice Age cave paintings in Spain and France were not extended bones but huge chunks of fat that helped them regulate their body temperatures and survive the long, cold winters, Tikhonov said. A sculpture of mammoths in the Siberian town of Khanty-Mansiisk. Wooly mammoths are thought to have died out around 10,000 years ago. (Dmitry Lovetsky/Associated Press) Jenya's hump was relatively big, which means that he died during a short Arctic summer, he said. Up to 4 metres in height and 10 tons in weight, mammoths migrated across huge areas between Great Britain and North America and were driven to extinction by humans and the changing climate. Wooly mammoths are thought to have died out around 10,000 years ago, although scientists think small groups of them lived longer in Alaska and on Russia's Wrangel Island off the Siberian coast. Their bodies have mostly been found in the Siberian permafrost. Siberian cultural myths paint them as primordial creatures who moved underground and helped to create the Earth. Best-preserved mammoth since 1901 Most of the well-preserved mammoths are calves. Jenya's carcass is the best-preserved one since the 1901 discovery of a giant mammoth near the Beryozovka river in Russia's northeastern Yakutia region, Tikhonov said. Unfortunately, its DNA has been damaged by low temperatures and is "hardly" suitable for possible cloning, he said. However, an earlier mammoth discovery might be able to help recreate the Ice Age elephant. Russia's North-Eastern Federal University said in early September that an international team of researchers had discovered mammoth hair, soft tissues and bone marrow some 100 metres underground during a summer expedition in Yakutia. Scientists already have deciphered much of the genetic code of the woolly mammoth from balls of mammoth hair found frozen in the Siberian permafrost. Some believe it's possible to recreate the prehistoric animal if they find living cells in the permafrost. Those who succeed in recreating an extinct animal could claim a "Jurassic Park prize," a concept being developed by the X Prize Foundation that awarded a 2004 prize for the first private spacecraft. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Found Mammoth parts raise hopes of 'Jurassic Park' cloning Scientists sequence most of extinct woolly mammoth's genome Should extinct animals like the woolly mammoth be cloned? Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca