https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/growing-arctic-sea-ice-likely-to-melt-says-scientist-1.846513
Growing Arctic sea ice likely to melt, says scientist | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Growing Arctic sea ice likely to melt, says scientist Social Sharing Technology & Science Growing Arctic sea ice likely to melt, says scientist A University of Manitoba climate researcher says the growth of Arctic sea ice in 2008 is not cause for optimism because it's mostly thin, first-year ice. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Feb 21, 2009 10:17 AM ET | Last Updated: February 21, 2009 A University of Manitoba climate researcher says the growth of Arctic sea ice in 2008 is not cause for optimism. What scientists are seeing is mostly thin, first-year ice that is likely to melt during the summer, David Barber is quoted as saying this week in the Winnipeg Free Press. The amount of thicker multi-year ice that once covered the entire Arctic basin before it began melting decreased last year, Barber said. Satellite images have recorded that sort of decrease for the last three decades, noting a decline of more than 10 per cent per decade. The 2007 retreat in ice was the largest on record, allowing clear navigation of the Northwest Passage for the first time in human memory. In another surprising development, satellite images taken last July showed a slab of ice measuring four square kilometres had broken away from the Ward Hunt Island Ice Shelf in Nunavut. Canadian and U.S. researchers who studied the fracture said it was more evidence of accelerated climate change in the northern polar region. With scientists predicting ice-free summers as soon as 2013, government and industry interest in the Arctic has peaked over the possibility of valuable new shipping lanes. Ecosystems in danger from melting ice But the melting ice is also evidence of rising temperatures across the globe and bad news for northern communities and the Arctic ecosystem, from plankton to polar bears. "People were taking a certain amount of comfort in the fact that the ice rebounded a little bit in 2008," Barber said in a report published Friday in the Winnipeg newspaper. "But the take-home message from our research results is that we shouldn’t be very comfortable with that because in fact we lost a lot more multi-year sea ice in 2008 than we did in 2007." Barber led the $40-million Circumpolar Flaw Lead study, which ended its nine-month research stint in the high Arctic last August. Some of the study’s preliminary findings will be presented to the public at a Geneva conference next week as International Polar Year draws to a close. International Polar Year was touted as the largest-ever international program of scientific research focused on the Arctic and Antarctic regions. Barber's team travelled aboard a Canadian research icebreaker as part of the program. The study was the first time scientists observed first-hand the formation of Arctic ice during the fall, said Barber, who called preliminary findings "dramatic" and "illuminating." Melting ice has left large areas of open water that absorb heat from the sun. This warming of the water delayed the formation of ice, despite cold air temperatures on land, Barber said. A group of British polar explorers is currently in Nunavut, preparing to collect data on the depth of sea ice for a journey set to begin at the end of the month. Members of the Catlin Arctic Survey will be travelling on foot across what the group says will be a "disintegrating and shifting sea ice" for a 90-day trek. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories IN DEPTH: Canadian Arctic research Fragmenting Arctic ice shelf a sign of warming temperatures: scientist Record sea ice loss opens Northwest Passage Recent cold snap helping Arctic sea ice, scientists find External Links International Polar Year International Polar Year International Polar Year Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca