https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/feathered-dinosaur-s-full-plumage-unveiled-1.871951
Feathered dinosaur's full plumage unveiled | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Feathered dinosaur's full plumage unveiled Social Sharing Technology & Science Feathered dinosaur's full plumage unveiled Paleontologists have revealed the detailed colour pattern of the feathers of a four-winged dinosaur that lived more than 150 million years ago. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Feb 04, 2010 2:06 PM ET | Last Updated: February 4, 2010 Paleontologists have revealed the detailed colour pattern of the feathers of a four-winged dinosaur that lived more than 150 million years ago. The dinosaur, Anchiornis huxleyi, had a dark grey or black body, long white feathers fringed with black on its wings, and a long reddish-brown crest on its head and matching speckles on its face, the scientists said. "This was no crow or sparrow, but a creature with a very notable plumage," said Richard O. Prum, a biologist at Yale University and a co-author of the study. "This would be a very striking animal if it was alive today." The research, published online this week in Science Express, was done in a similar way to the study published in Nature last week that revealed the orange-and-white pattern of feather-like bristles on the tail of a small two-legged dinosaur. The Yale scientists say their study is different because it analyzed the melanosomes, microscopic structures that carry pigment, of an entire fossil, and assigned colours to individual feathers. The team of scientists — which included scientists from the University of Texas at Austin, the University of Akron, Peking University and the Beijing Museum of Natural History — used scanning electron microscopes to examine 29 fossil feather samples from the dinosaur. They found microscopic fossils indicating the type of melanosomes that were present in the feathers, and even at different locations on individual feathers. The shape of the melanosomes offers a clue to their colour: in modern birds and mammals, sausage-shaped melanosomes carry black and grey pigments and spherical ones carry orange and brown colours. Some of the feather fossils contained no evidence of melanosomes and were probably white. The researchers found that the colour pattern on Anchiornis huxleyi was similar to ones found in living birds, including domesticated waterfowl and the spangled Hamburg chicken. The dinosaur wasn't capable of powered flight, so the researchers say their study is further evidence that feathers first evolved for other purposes. "This means a colour-patterning function — for example, camouflage or display — must have had a key role in the early evolution of feathers in dinosaurs, and was just as important as evolving flight or improved aerodynamic function," said Julia Clarke of the University of Texas at Austin, in a statement. For Prum, an ornithologist by training, the discovery of the colour pattern on the feathers of this dinosaur was especially interesting. "Writing the first scientifically based 'field guide' description of the appearance of an extinct dinosaur was a exciting and unforgettable experience — the ultimate dream of every kid who was ever obsessed with dinosaurs," Prum said. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Dinosaur had orange tail feathers: scientists Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca