https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/caribou-herds-dwindling-worldwide-alberta-study-1.803415
Caribou herds dwindling worldwide: Alberta study | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Caribou herds dwindling worldwide: Alberta study Social Sharing Technology & Science Caribou herds dwindling worldwide: Alberta study Populations of caribou and reindeer, which northern peoples have long relied on, have fallen drastically worldwide over the past three decades, a Canadian study has found. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jun 12, 2009 3:56 PM ET | Last Updated: June 12, 2009 Populations of caribou and reindeer, which northern peoples have long relied on, have fallen drastically worldwide over the past three decades, a Canadian study has found. While researchers knew that Canadian caribou populations had been plunging, University of Alberta biologists Liv Vors and Mark Boyce believe their study is the first worldwide analysis. It shows the problem spans the north from Alaska to Scandinavia to Siberia. "This is happening all around the world," Vors said Friday, adding that this is important because some of Canada's herds migrate into the United States. "If we protect caribou habitat in one area, but they're only there for part of the year and then they migrate somewhere where there's no such protection, then it essentially undoes any effort that we have tried to make." The study, published in the latest issue of the journal Global Change Biology, warned that the loss of caribou would remove an important source of meat and income for northern people as well as hurt their traditional culture and spiritual life. The population decline could also affect plants and invertebrates that rely on caribou grazing and feces for access to nutrients. Vors and Boyce combed through data on 58 caribou and reindeer herds around the world from scientific papers, government databases and other sources, finding figures on all but 16. Among the rest, 34 of the herds were declining in population and only eight were increasing. Available data showed herds down 57 per cent from their maximum population over roughly the past 20 years. Human industry, climate change blamed A comprehensive survey of recent studies found human activity such as logging and oil and gas extraction have hurt non-migratory woodland caribou the most. For migratory Arctic caribou, the main problems are the effects of climate change, the study suggested. Warmer summers have boosted the number of insects, Vors said, leading the animals to run around and shake themselves instead of feeding. "There are some nasty, nasty parasites that actually lay eggs under their skin and it drives them crazy," she said. If they don't put on enough fat before winter, they won't survive and the females can't conceive. Warmer winters have led to more freezing rain, which forms a layer over the lichens that the animals eat. "They can't dig through it, and often mass starvation can follow." While there is little Canada can do about climate change that has already happened, Vors said, it can and should protect the habitat of non-migratory caribou. Canada designated its boreal caribou herds as "endangered" earlier this year after a report found more than half were in decline. Earlier this week, a committee responsible for finding ways to save Alberta's few remaining caribou herds recommended protecting thousands of square kilometres in the northeast of the province. Otherwise, the animals are expected to all but disappear within the next 20 to 40 years. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories IN DEPTH: Caribou Dwindling caribou numbers prompt call for changes to hunting practices Half of Canada's boreal caribou herds in decline: report More N.W.T. hunters charged with wasting caribou meat Quebec Innu hunting endangered caribou in Labrador External Links Global Change Biology Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca