https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/india-launches-satellite-into-space-1.677655
India launches satellite into space | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news India launches satellite into space Social Sharing Technology & Science India launches satellite into space India on Wednesday launched a rocket carrying a satellite designed to test re-entry vehicle technology that could be used in a future manned space mission. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: Jan 10, 2007 8:54 PM ET | Last Updated: January 11, 2007 India launched a rocket on Wednesday carrying a satellite designed to test re-entry vehicle technology that could be used in a future manned space mission. The red-and-white rocket climbed into space from the Satish Dhawan Space Center in Sriharikota in the southern Indian state of Andhra Pradesh to the cheers of scientists and engineers at mission control. The rocket also put the first Indonesian-built satellite into space, Indonesian officials said. "It is a great day for the country. We have done it and done it correctly. The mission is a success," said G. Madhavan Nair, chairman of the Indian Space Research Organization. India has had 11 successful rocket launches since its first satellite in the INSAT series was put into orbit in 1982. It has not announced specific plans for a manned space mission, but an unmanned moon mission is scheduled for 2008. The rocket carried the 550-kilogram Space Capsule Recovery Experiment, or SRE-1, designed to test re-entry technology, the ISRO said. The capsule will orbit Earth for 13 to 30 days before re-entering the atmosphere and plunging into the Bay of Bengal off India's east coast, where it will be recovered, the statement said. It will test technology for "navigation, guidance and control during the re-entry phase." SRE-1 will also carry out experiments involving microgravity conditions. The rocket also carried an Indian remote-sensing satellite and two foreign-built satellites — the Lapan-Tubsat from Indonesia and the Argentine-built Pehuensat-1. Lapan-Tubsat was the first satellite made by Indonesia, said Agus Nuryanto, deputy at the National Institute of Aeronautics and Space of Indonesia. He said it was built with assistance from the Technical University of Berlin. The Pehuensat-1 is a six-kilogram Argentine nano-satellite built by the University of Comahue of Argentina, the Amateur Satellite Association of Argentina and the Argentina Association for Space Technology. It is intended to provide a platform to perform amateur radio experiments between the country's colleges and universities, ISRO said. All four satellites were successfully placed in orbit, said mission director K. Narayanamurthy. The launch was the first since July, when an attempt to launch a communications satellite failed after the rocket veered off course in the separation stage and exploded. India earlier put its satellites in orbit aboard European Ariane rockets launched from the EU's space center in French Guiana. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories India plans to blast astronaut into space Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca