https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/cirque-du-soleil-founder-preps-for-space-trip-1.789157
Cirque du Soleil founder preps for space trip | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Cirque du Soleil founder preps for space trip Social Sharing Technology & Science Cirque du Soleil founder preps for space trip The first Canadian civilian to buy a ticket to space said he's eager to begin practical training for his September trip to the International Space Station. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jul 23, 2009 12:13 PM ET | Last Updated: July 23, 2009 Cirque du Soleil founder Guy Laliberté is scheduled to spend 12 days on the International Space Station. ((CBC)) The first Canadian civilian to buy a ticket to space said Thursday he's eager to begin practical training for his September trip to the International Space Station. Cirque du Soleil founder Guy Laliberté is scheduled to blast off on Sept. 30 aboard a Soyuz spacecraft, becoming Canada's first space tourist and just the seventh civilian to fly alongside astronauts and cosmonauts on the Russian spaceships. At a news conference, Laliberté said his training has been theoretical thus far, but practical training is set to begin soon. "It has been full weeks because I'm in an intensive training program, but until now it's been a fantastic experience," Laliberté said. "A lot of work, a lot of studying, but a lot of fun, too." Laliberté paid nearly $35 million to Russia's space agency for the chance to fly on the spacecraft. He'll spend 12 days aboard the space station and meet with Canadian astronaut Robert Thirsk, who is currently two months into a six-month stay aboard the orbiting facility. The Quebec billionaire said he hopes to use his trip to space to raise awareness about the need for clean water around the world. Laliberté created the One Drop Foundation two years ago to help make safe water accessible globally. U.S. astronaut Chris Cassidy and a colleague were replacing batteries on the space station's oldest array during Wednesday's spacewalk when Cassidy's spacesuit began showing higher than usual levels of carbon dioxide. The spacewalk was cut short and the tasks will resume during the next foray outside the station. ((NASA TV)) "I'm not a scientist, I'm not a doctor, I'm not an engineer," Laliberté said. "I'm an artist, I'm a creator and I'll try to accomplish this mission with my creativity and what life has given me as a tool." While Laliberté was speaking at a news conference in Houston, astronauts aboard the station — including Thirsk and fellow Canadian Julie Payette — were preparing to put a new robotic arm to work Thursday. Japanese astronaut Koichi Wakata and American astronaut Tim Kopra will use the Kibo module's robotic arm to transfer two experiments and a communication system to the recently installed exposed portion of Kibo's laboratory. On Wednesday, two astronauts installed two of four batteries outside the International Space Station, but cut the spacewalk short after one of the astronaut's space suits had higher than normal levels of carbon dioxide. The remaining two batteries will be serviced during a later spacewalk. With files from the Canadian Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Cirque du Soleil founder to become 1st Canadian space tourist Civilians in space: FAQ Spacewalking astronauts give solar arrays a boost Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca