https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/space-station-nears-completion-1.877695
Space station nears completion | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Space station nears completion Social Sharing Technology & Science Space station nears completion It will be a busy week for astronauts on the International Space Station, with Friday's arrival of a Russian cargo ship and Sunday's scheduled shuttle launch. Social Sharing Shuttle mission will leave ISS 98% complete CBC News · Posted: Feb 05, 2010 10:58 AM ET | Last Updated: February 5, 2010 The International Space Station is seen against the Earth's horizon in this photo posted Wednesday on Twitpic.com by U.S. astronaut Jose Hernandez. Hernandez visited the station aboard the shuttle Discovery last summer. ((Jose Hernandez/Twitpic)) It will be a busy week for astronauts on the International Space Station, with Friday's arrival of a Russian cargo ship and Sunday's scheduled U.S. shuttle launch. The unmanned Progress M-07M spacecraft, launched from Kazakhstan on Tuesday, completed an automatic docking with the ISS on Friday morning, the Russian space agency said. It delivered 2.5 tonnes of fuel, oxygen, food, water and other supplies, as well as scientific equipment and personal packages for the astronauts. The station's crew includes Americans Timothy Creamer and Jeff Williams, Russians Maxim Surayev and Oleg Kotov, and Japan's Soichi Noguchi. Once its cargo is unloaded, the Progress vessel will be filled with garbage and, like its predecessors, will be undocked from the station and burned in Earth's atmosphere. This Progress spacecraft is scheduled to be undocked in May. There are currently two Progress cargo ships and two Soyuz crew capsules docked at the station, the first time so many Russian vessels have been moored there. The station will have to make room for one more ship, as the space shuttle Endeavour is slated to launch early Sunday and dock with the station Tuesday. The space shuttle Endeavour stands on its launch pad at Cape Canaveral, Fla., ahead of its scheduled launch Sunday. ((John Raoux/Associated Press)) After Endeavour's 13-day mission, the space station will be 98 per cent complete. The shuttle is carrying the Italian-built Tranquility module, also called Node 3, which will provide life-support systems and living quarters to the station. It is topped with a seven-window hexagonal dome, called Cupola, which will be used to observe dockings and Canadarm 2 operations. Astronauts currently use TV cameras and monitors when they're using the robotic arm, and the module's large windows will allow them a direct view. The dome has one large circular window — at 80 centimetres across, the largest ever sent into space — with six trapezoidal windows around it. The windows are made of four panes of fused silica glass and each has a metal shutter to protect it from space junk and micrometeoroids. The shuttles' contribution to the construction of the space station is scheduled to conclude in September with Discovery's launch carrying the Leonardo multipurpose module. Further station modules, such as the European robotic arm and the Nauka laboratory, will be carried by Russian rockets. The White House's proposed budget announced this week gave a funding boost to the International Space Station, extending its operation until at least 2020. Including Sunday's Endeavour launch, only five more shuttle missions are scheduled. After that, the fleet is slated to be retired. With files from The Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories NASA budget cancels moon shot February shuttle launch still on despite hose leaks External Links Jose Hernandez (Astro_Jose) on Twitter Jose Hernandez (Astro_Jose) on Twitter Jose Hernandez (Astro_Jose) on Twitter Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca