https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/new-bird-species-discovered-in-bustling-asian-city-1.1373330
New bird species discovered in bustling Asian city | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news New bird species discovered in bustling Asian city Social Sharing Technology & Science New bird species discovered in bustling Asian city A new species of bird has been discovered in the Cambodian capital, Phnom Penh, a bustling city of 1.5 million people. Social Sharing Cambodian tailorbird lives in dense vegetation in and around Phnom Penh CBC News · Posted: Jun 26, 2013 11:31 AM ET | Last Updated: June 27, 2013 The Cambodian tailorbird was originally photographed at a construction site by a Wildlife Conservation Society scientist, who thought it was a known, similar species. (James Eaton/BirdTour Asia) A new species of bird has been discovered in the Cambodian capital, Phnom Penh, a bustling city of 1.5 million people. The Cambodian tailorbird is a grey bird about the size of a wren with a rust-coloured cap and a black throat. It was found both in the city itself and several locations just outside the city, including a construction site, by a team of scientists with the Wildlife Conservation Society, BirdLife International, the University of Kansas, Louisiana State University and the Sam Veasna Centre, said a news release from the New York-based Wildlife Conservation Society late Tuesday. "The modern discovery of an undescribed bird species within the limits of a large populous city — not to mention 30 minutes from my home — is extraordinary," said Simon Mahood, a scientist with the Wildlife Conservation Society, and lead author of the scientific paper describing the new bird. "The discovery indicates that new species of birds may still be found in familiar and unexpected locations." The paper describing the bird is published in a special online issue of Forktail, the journal of the Oriental Bird Club. The Cambodian tailorbird was first photographed at a construction site at the edge of Phnom Penh by Wildlife Conservation Society scientist John Ashish, who thought it was a similar, coastal species of tailorbird. Read about another bird discovery announced in southeast Asia this year — the Ranjani scops owl Mahood wasn't so sure, and did some further investigation, confirming it as a new species. The new bird has been given the scientific name Orthotomus chaktomuk. "Chaktomuk" is an old word in Khmer, the official language of Cambodia, that means "four faces," describing where the bird was found — an area where the Tonle Sap, Mekong and Bassac rivers come together. The bird lives in a type of habitat called floodplain scrub, which is dense with vegetation. The Wildlife Conservation Society speculates that is what kept it hidden for so long. There is little of its habitat remaining in the city itself, but the bird remains abundant in larger tracts of floodplain scrub outside city limits, including a conservation area. However, it lives only in Cambodia. Only one other known bird species, the Cambodian laughingthrush of the Cardamom Mountains, is found solely in Cambodia. The scientists recommend that the Cambodian tailorbird be classified as "near threatened" under the International Union for Conservation of Nature's red list — one level below "vulnerable" and two levels below "endangered." Phnom Penh, the capital of Cambodia, is home to 1.5 million people. (Milei Vencel/Wikimedia Commons) CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories 1 in 8 bird species threatened with extinction Photos The Top 10 new species of 2011 External Links Paper in Forktail, including recordings and videos Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca