https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/canada-warming-at-twice-the-global-rate-leaked-report-finds-1.5079765
Canada warming at twice the global rate, leaked report finds | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Canada warming at twice the global rate, leaked report finds Social Sharing Technology & Science Canada warming at twice the global rate, leaked report finds A leaked copy of a government report on climate change says that since 1948, Canada's annual average temperature over land has warmed 1.7 C, with higher rates seen in the North, the Prairies and northern British Columbia. Social Sharing Government report scheduled for release on Tuesday CBC News · Posted: Apr 01, 2019 3:17 PM ET | Last Updated: April 4, 2019 Wildfires like this one in the La Ronge area of Saskatchewan are a greater risk as a result of increased warming in Canada due to climate change. (Saskatchewan Ministry of Environment/ Wildfire Branch/Canadian Press) comments Canada is, on average, experiencing warming at twice the rate of the rest of the world, with Northern Canada heating up at almost three times the global average, according to a new government report. The study — Canada's Changing Climate Report (CCCR) — was commissioned by Environment and Climate Change Canada. It says that since 1948, Canada's annual average temperature over land has warmed 1.7 C, with higher rates seen in the North, the Prairies and northern British Columbia. In Northern Canada, the annual average temperature has increased by 2.3 C. Read the Canada's Changing Climate Report 2019 According to the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), since 1948, global average temperatures have increased by about 0.8 C. Along with these temperature increases, the CCCR says Canada is experiencing increases in precipitation (particularly in winter), "extreme fire weather" and water supply shortages in summer, and a heightened risk of coastal flooding. Opinion Report on devastating Canadian climate change a far bigger issue than Jody Wilson-Raybould: Neil Macdonald What you need to know: Federal carbon tax takes effect in Ont., Manitoba, Sask. and N.B. today The report was authored by government scientists from the ministries of Environment and Climate Change, Fisheries and Oceans and Natural Resources, with contributions from university experts. The document says that while warming in Canada has been the result of both human activity and natural variations in the climate, "the human factor is dominant," especially emissions of greenhouse gases. Increased precipitation Increasing warmth has had a number of effects in Canada, including greater precipitation, the report says. The authors' observations show that annual precipitation has increased across Canada since 1948, with larger increases in northern Canada and parts of Manitoba, Ontario, northern Quebec and Atlantic Canada. Warming also has led to a reduction in how much snowfall accounts for total precipitation in southern Canada. (CBC News) Additionally, warming will intensify the severity of heat waves and contribute to higher risks of drought and wildfires. The report says that extreme heat events — which currently occur every 20 years on average — will happen once every five years by the middle of the century under a low-emissions scenario, and every other year in a high-emissions scenario. Low- and high-emission scenarios The report's early release saw it come out as the the federal government's carbon-pricing plan was going into effect in Manitoba, New Brunswick, Ontario and Saskatchewan. Ottawa has imposed a fuel levy in these provinces as a backstop because they don't have carbon-pricing schemes of their own in place. Ford government vows to use 'every tool' to fight federal carbon tax Parks Canada battles Arctic ice to explore crumbling wreck The report stresses that efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the coming decades will have "an increasing impact on the amount of additional warming beyond this time frame." The report says the national annual average temperature increase projected for the late century, compared to the reference period of 1986-2005, ranges from a "low-emission scenario" of 1.8 C to a "high-emission scenario" of 6.3 C. According to the now released report, the only way to keep global temperature rises in line with the targets set by nations at the Paris climate summit in 2015 is for "global emissions to peak almost immediately, with rapid and deep reductions thereafter." The report also predicts that under a medium-emission scenario, glaciers in Canada's west will lose between 74 per cent and 96 per cent of their volume by the end of the century. 'There is a shift that's happening': Elders say climate change is pushing caribou farther north Corrections An earlier version of this story said that more intense rainfall contributes to increased urban flooding. In fact, while the report states that precipitation is higher overall, it did not find that episodes of short-duration extreme rainfall have increased or establish a connection between these and increased or exacerbated flooding. Apr 04, 2019 2:23 PM ET CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Opinion Report on devastating Canadian climate change a far bigger issue than Jody Wilson-Raybould: Neil Macdonald What you need to know: Federal carbon tax takes effect in Ont., Manitoba, Sask. and N.B. today Ford government vows to use 'every tool' to fight federal carbon tax Parks Canada battles Arctic ice to explore crumbling wreck 'There is a shift that's happening': Elders say climate change is pushing caribou farther north External Links Read the Canada's Changing Climate Report 2019 Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca