https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/virgin-galactic-eyes-sweden-for-european-space-tours-1.659859
Virgin Galactic eyes Sweden for European space tours | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Virgin Galactic eyes Sweden for European space tours Social Sharing Technology & Science Virgin Galactic eyes Sweden for European space tours Virgin Galactic and a Swedish firm signed a deal on Friday to investigate a potential launch site for commercial space flights that would provide a view of the northern lights. Social Sharing CBC News · Posted: Jan 26, 2007 4:55 PM ET | Last Updated: January 26, 2007 Virgin Galactic and a Swedish firm signed a deal on Friday to investigate a potential launch site for commercial space flights that would provide a view of the northern lights. The British space tourism company owned by billionaire Richard Branson has already scheduled flights from the U.S. in 2008. Virgin Galactic hopes to launch flights from Kiruna Airport— one of the nation's northernmost airstrips. As part of its partnership with Virgin Galactic, Swedish company Spaceport will investigate the airport's potential as a launch and landing site. If it proves suitable the first launches will occur in 2011 or 2012, a Spaceport official said. The site was chosen because of its proximity to the northern lights and its previous use as a launching pad for satellites. "This provides us with Europe's first obvious place for suborbital space flights," said Susan Newsam, spokeswoman at Virgin Galactic, who adds that "flying into the aurora borealis has never been done before." The company said last year they would be conducting research into the safety of such a flight. Scientists have little information on how the storms that produce the northern lights affect spacecraft. A joint NASA-Canadian Space Agency THEMIS project will launch five satellites into space in February to monitor the northern lights, the visual display of energy discharges created when charged particles expelled by the sun interact with Earth's magnetic field. Virgin Galactic is one of several companies — along with Amazon.com founder Jeff Bezos's Blue Origin — hoping to turn space tourism from flight of fancy into a budding industry. Branson bought the rights to develop a fleet of spaceships capable of suborbital flight based on the design of SpaceShipOne, the first commercially built ship to make two flights at a height of 100 km above the Earth. But the cost of flying on a two-hour tour on Virgin Galactic's SpaceShipTwo spacecraft remains too pricey for all but the wealthiest travellers. A two-hour flight would cost about $200,000 US, according to Steven Grahn, project manager for Spaceport. But Grahn said 200 people have already made down payments for the suborbital flights. Suborbital flight requires much less energy than the orbital flights undertaken by NASA's space shuttles and Russia's Soyuz spacecraft. The International Space Station, for example, orbits at a distance ofover 350km from the Earth. A group of space tourists have managed to make it deeper into space by providing funding to Russia's space agency. Former Microsoft software developer Charles Simonyi will fly to the International Space Station aboard a Russian Soyuz spacecraft in March of this year, becoming just the fifth non-astronautto visit the station. With files from the Associated Press CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories In Depth: Space tourism FAQ Photo Gallery: Mission to the northern lights Satellites to illuminate mystery of northern lights British billionaire unveils spaceship design Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca