https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/red-deer-cave-people-1.3374837
Red Deer Cave thigh bone suggests prehistoric humans survived until recently | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Red Deer Cave thigh bone suggests prehistoric humans survived until recently Social Sharing Technology & Science Red Deer Cave thigh bone suggests prehistoric humans survived until recently An ancient thigh bone from southwest China provides more evidence prehistoric humans similar to Homo habilis and Homo erectus walked mainland Eurasia at the same time as modern humans, researchers say. Social Sharing 14,000-year-old thigh bone from China resembles prehistoric human ancestors from Africa Australian Broadcasting Corporation · Posted: Dec 21, 2015 1:02 PM ET | Last Updated: December 21, 2015 Bones found at China's Red Deer Cave, especially a thigh bone, have features that resemble those of prehistoric humans who lived in Africa 1.5 million years ago, even though the bones are only 14,000 years old. (Darren Curnoe, Ji Xueping and Peter Schouten) comments An ancient thighbone from southwest China provides more evidence prehistoric humans walked mainland Eurasia at the same time as modern humans, researchers say. Their analysis of a 14,000-year-old partial thighbone, recovered from Maludong (meaning Red Deer Cave) in Yunnan Province in 1989, is reported today in the journal PLOS ONE. It follows a 2012 analysis by the team of skull bones from Maludong and another site in China, that led to their first suggestion of the existence of the Red Deer Cave people. We don't pretend for a moment that our ideas aren't pushing the envelope. - Dareen Curnoe, University of New South Wales The thigh bone consists of the upper half of a femur and lacks the head that would form the hip joint, said Darren Curnoe, an associate professor from the University of New South Wales, who led the research with Ji Xueping, a professor from the Yunnan Institute of Cultural Relics and Archaeology. Despite the young age of the bone, the researchers argue their analysis of 15 of its traits suggests it comes from a human with "primitive anatomy." "This is a thighbone that is very different to modern humans," Curnoe said. Small, knock-kneed While not sure, his colleagues believe it came from a pre-modern human that looked like it might have lived in Africa or Asia about 1.5 million years ago. Homo habilis, erectus were the same species, study suggests Ancient human relative's DNA puzzles scientists Curnoe said the thighbone likely belonged to an individual who weighed about 50 kilograms and walked quite differently to modern humans. "It may have been a bit more knock-kneed when it was walking," he said. The thigh bone was excavated from the Maludong (Red Deer Cave) site in southeastern Yunnan, China, in 1989. (Ji Xueping and Darren Curnoe) It had generally been believed the last surviving prehistoric humans on mainland Eurasia — the Neanderthals of Europe and another group called the Denisovans from southern Siberia — died out soon after modern humans arrived. Ancient human with close Neanderthal ancestor found in Romania Denisovans: Ancient teeth reveal more about mysterious human relatives But the thighbone analysis suggests prehistoric species of humans roamed the same landscape as modern humans in China for about 60,000 years. "We don't pretend for a moment that our ideas aren't pushing the envelope," Curnoe said. He said the bone was unlikely to be from a diseased modern human as there was no sign of disease and the combination of features seen in it had never been seen before in humans. Possibly Denisovan It is possible the bone could be Denisovan, said Curnoe, but given so few Denisovan bones have been found, this idea would be impossible to test. Alternatively, the bone is from a new species altogether, he said. Curnoe said Red Deer Cave people were more modern-looking than the "hobbit" from Flores, but may have evolved in similarly isolated conditions in the tropical forests on the edge of the Himalayas. 'Hobbit' species evolved with small skull: researchers Another idea is that some of them could be hybrids between modern humans and a more archaic species. Colin Groves, a professor from the Australian National University's School of Archaeology and Anthropology said the incomplete nature of the thighbone may explain why it looks so primitive. However, he said overall the bones from Maludong present a picture of a human that was not a modern human. "It is a strange mixture of derived features of modern humans with features that are very archaic," Groves said. "The features, as a whole, are outside the range of Homo sapiens," he said. "It's convincingly different." However, Maciej Henneberg, a professor at the University of Adelaide and an expert in human anatomy and human evolution, said the images, descriptions and analysis provided in the paper are "unconvincing". "I'm not certain this bone belongs to a primate," he said. "It may be a deer's femur." He said it was also not clear how representative the bone being analysed is of the original bone. For example, he said it is possible degradation over time may lead to misinterpretations of anatomy, such as where muscles were attached. "Evidence is insufficient to draw such far-reaching conclusions such as the existence, only about 14,000 years ago, of a separate species," Henneberg said. DNA analysis of the fossils would help settle who the mysterious Red Deer Cave people are, but so far that evidence has proved elusive. Curnoe said one attempt had already been made to isolate DNA from the bones at Maludong, however this had failed. He said another attempt was currently underway in China. Evidence of earliest modern humans outside Africa found in China CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Evidence of earliest modern humans outside Africa found in China Denisovans: Ancient teeth reveal more about mysterious human relatives Fossils in China reveal new Stone Age people Ancient human relative's DNA puzzles scientists Cave art in Indonesia may be oldest in world Ancient human with close Neanderthal ancestor found in Romania External Links News release from University of South Wales Full paper in PLOS ONE Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca