https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/climate-change-could-harm-crops-study-1.689000
Climate change could harm crops: study | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Climate change could harm crops: study Social Sharing Technology & Science Climate change could harm crops: study Climate change could drive many wild relatives of plants such as the potato and the peanut into extinction, threatening a valuable source of genes necessary to help these food crops fight pests and drought, an international research group says. Social Sharing The Associated Press · Posted: May 23, 2007 9:33 AM ET | Last Updated: May 23, 2007 Climate change could drive many wild relatives of plants such as the potato and the peanut into extinction, threatening a valuable source of genes necessary to help these food crops fight pests and drought, says a report by an international research group. In the next 50 years, more than 60 per cent of 51 wild peanut species analyzed and 12 per cent of 108 wild potato species analyzed could become extinct because of climate change, according to a study by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research. Surviving species would be confined to much smaller areas, further eroding their capacity to survive, the report said. The study looked at the distribution of various species and predicted their ability to survive based on current and projected climate data for 2055. Farmers and researchers often depend on wild plants to breed new varieties of crops that contain genes for traits such as pest resistance or drought tolerance, and that reliance is expected to increase as climate changes strain the ability of crops to continue to have the same yields as now, the group said in a statement. In recent years, genes found in wild relatives have helped develop new types of domesticated potatoes that can fight devastating potato blight,and new varieties of wheat more likely to survive droughts, the statement said. "There is an urgent need to collect and store the seeds of wild relatives in crop diversity collections before they disappear," said Andy Jarvis, an agricultural geographer who led the study. "At the moment, existing collections are conserving only a fraction of the diversity of wild species that are out there." Jarvis said further research is needed to identify which wild relatives are more vulnerable to climate change. Plant species like the peanut are more endangered by global warming as they grow largely in flat areas and would have to migrate over huge distances to find cooler climates, while plants that live on mountain slopes may only need to gain a little altitude to find more favorable weather, he said. The study, focusing on plants in Africa and South America, was put out by a Rome-based biodiversity group, one of 15 agricultural research centres worldwide supported by the Consultative Group. The international organization is an informal association of 64 countries, public and private groups co-sponsored by the World Bank and the UN Food and Agriculture Organization. It works toward sustainable food security and researches ways to cut poverty in developing countries through scientific research. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Climate change features Video series: The National - Living in a warming world Climate change map Quirks and Quarks column: The Aussie-Canuck connection: Parallel perils Video: The Hour - Climate Change of Plans Feature: Climate change - the heat is on Photo gallery: Ayles ice shelf collapse Feature: Wind resistance - Will Canadians embrace green power? External Links Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca