https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/is-there-a-link-between-climate-change-and-terrorism-1.3088380
Is there a link between climate change and terrorism? | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu COVID-19: What you need to knowCOVID-19 guide Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Music Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indigenous Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts IWD 2020 Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules Frequency LISTEN LIVE Music Read Watch Events Explore LISTEN LIVE CBC Music Playlists TV Shows Schedule CBC Gem Shop More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News news Is there a link between climate change and terrorism? Social Sharing Technology & Science Is there a link between climate change and terrorism? Barack Obama recently said that climate change "constitutes a serious threat to global security." Security analysts say the idea has been percolating in Western military circles for a few years, but there is still skepticism about a direct link. Social Sharing U.S. president makes connection between environmental changes and global conflicts Andre Mayer · CBC News · Posted: May 26, 2015 4:08 PM ET | Last Updated: May 27, 2015 The U.S. has been making the case in recent months that climate change can influence global conflicts, such as the current civil war in Syria. (Reuters) comments Barack Obama has spent considerable time in recent months publicly explaining his positions on both climate change and violent extremism. But in a Coast Guard commencement address last week, the U.S. president deliberately combined the two, saying that climate change "constitutes a serious threat to global security." Jeb Bush criticizes Obama for overstating climate change issue ISIS poses bigger threat after nearly a year of coalition bombing: Nahlah Ayed Iraq lacks 'will to fight' ISIS, U.S. says Security analysts say the idea has been percolating in Western military circles for the past few years, but there is still skepticism about a direct link. Francesca de Châtel, an Amsterdam-based researcher with an expertise in water issues in the Arab world, says that while issues such as climate change and terrorism are real, "bundling them all together" is problematic. "Climate change implies a lot of unknowns, and then if you add to that conflict, which also implies unknown outcomes, it just creates an air of uncertainty and fear," she says. Stage-setting for climate talks Still, for Obama, "climate change constitutes a serious threat to global security, an immediate risk to our national security, and, make no mistake, it will impact how our military defends our country," he told over 200 graduating Coast Guard cadets in Connecticut. U.S. President Barack Obama used a recent commencement address for Coast Guard graduates to talk about the link between climate change and regional conflicts. (AP file photo) The same day as Obama's speech, the White House released a paper called "The National Security Implications of a Changing Climate." It concludes that climate change "will change the nature of U.S. military missions, demand more resources in the Arctic and other coastal regions vulnerable to rising sea levels and other impacts, and require a multilateral response to the growing humanitarian crises that climate change is predicted to bring." Since the mid-term elections, the president has emphasized environmental degradation as one of the world's most pressing issues. The Obama administration is onside with the majority of scientists who believe that man-made greenhouse gases are largely responsible for climate change. Jeffrey Mazo, a consulting senior fellow on environmental issues at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, feels the speech reflects Obama's belief in the importance of tackling the environment and was a way to "mobilize support" in anticipation of the Paris climate talks this fall. Origins in the '80s Mazo says U.S. research into the connection between climate change and global conflicts dates back to the early 1980s, and that the security establishment has been looking at the relationship seriously for more than a decade. Last year, the U.K.-based International Institute for Strategic Studies released a report that said environmental factors, such as water availability, soil degradation and severe weather events, "have been implicated in at least 73 conflicts since 1980." One of the effects of climate change is that it disrupts rain patterns and can lead to drought, which in turn wreaks havoc on farm yields and causes famines or raises the price of food for consumers. With this in mind, there has been significant research into whether a severe drought in the Levant between 2006 and 2010 laid the foundations for the Syrian civil war, a conflict that has not only led to widespread violence and displacement but facilitated the rise of ISIS and other radical groups. A water researcher, de Châtel says "a direct link is very hard to make, because there were so many other factors." She also notes that drought has long been part of the Syrian climate and that this particular dry spell coincided with a cut in government farming and fuel subsidies and mismanagement of the water supply, which were also factors in the popular unrest. So was the general mood of dissent that swept through North Africa and the Middle East in 2010 and 2011. "Without the Arab Spring, I don't think anything would have happened in Syria," says de Châtel. For his part, Mazo says one of the best examples of the influence of climate change on national security can be found in Darfur, Sudan. The UN has acknowledged that a long-running drought in Darfur, Sudan increased tension between black farmers and Arab nomads over water supplies, and eventually caused rebel groups to wage war against the government over the perceived oppression of non-Arab citizens. (Mohamed Nureldin Abdallah/Reuters) The UN has acknowledged that the long-running drought there increased tension between black farmers and Arab nomads over water supplies, and eventually caused rebel groups to wage war against the government over the perceived oppression of non-Arab citizens. "If you want to say, 'What was the main cause of the outbreak of violence in Darfur?', I couldn't pin it down," says Mazo. "But if you said, 'Was climate change a factor?' I would say, definitely yes." 'Threat multiplier' Obama's May 20th speech was pilloried by many Republicans, who were incredulous that the president would use climate change to explain the rise of violent movements such as the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, which a U.S.-led coalition is currently struggling to contain. There is some misunderstanding on the issue, says Francesco Femia, founding director of the Centre for Climate and Security, an independent Washington think tank. "I don't think the president is claiming that climate change in any way directly or exclusively causes conflicts," says Femia. Rather, the government is just acknowledging that "we have to factor in what climate is doing to certain situations on the ground," he says. Last fall, then-U.S. defence secretary Chuck Hagel called climate change "a threat multiplier," saying that it has "the potential to exacerbate many of the challenges we already confront today." Climate change is not necessarily a more significant threat multiplier than population growth or the rise of Islamic fundamentalism, says Mazo. What makes it unique, however, "is that it's a global phenomenon, and that it's new." CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News Report Typo or Error Related Stories Jeb Bush criticizes Obama for overstating climate change issue Are we losing the war against ISIS? How will Canada meet its new emissions reduction target? California drought's newest battlefront is bottled water Fossil fuels get global $5.3 trillion 'subsidy': IMF report Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Footer Links My Account Profile CBC Gem Newsletters Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Contact CBC Submit Feedback Help Centre Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 About CBC Corporate Info Sitemap Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy Jobs Our Unions Independent Producers Political Ads Registry AdChoices Services Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services CBC Shop Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows offered on CBC Gem. About CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2020 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca