https://www.cnet.com/news/mobile-penryn-early-test-results/
Mobile Penryn: early test results - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Mobile Penryn: early test results Benchmark results for the Intel Core 2 Duo T9500 mobile CPU Matt Elliott January 7, 2008 10:58 AM PST Let the 45nm processing begin! Intel Intel introduced its Penryn mobile processors today, and Dell sent us a Latitude D630 with one of the new chips last week to test against an identical Latitude with a previous-generation Merom chip. As we found last year when we tested the first Penryn desktop chip, the Core 2 Extreme QX9650, performance gains aren't immediately evident. While the Penryn mobile processor we tested, the Core 2 Duo T9500, boasts a more efficient 45-nanometer manufacturing process, it really is just laying the foundation for architectural advances that Intel will release later in the year with Nehalem. Compared with the previous-generation Core 2 Duo T7800, which our second Latitude D630 test system was running, the two chips feature the same 2.60GHz clockspeed and operate on the same 800MHz frontside bus of Intel's 965 Express chipset. The Penryn chip does serve up 6MB of L2 cache to the Merom chip's 4MB--along with support for the SSE4 instruction set, which aids audio, video, and 3D processing. On our standard benchmarks--that don't support SSE4--we saw incremental improvement at best. The Penryn system was no faster than the otherwise identical Merom system on our Photoshop CS3, Cinebench, and Quake 4 benchmarks, and we saw only a modest 12 percent bump on both our multimedia and iTunes tests. Intel last week told us we wouldn't see sizable performance gains until we started mucking about with applications with SSE4 support such as Adobe Premiere Pro CS3 and DivX Pro 6.8. The smaller 45nm chip design should result in improved battery life, as should Deep Power Down, a new power management setting Intel released with these Penryn chips that cuts the power of the processor when it's idle. (After one battery drain test, however, we saw only an eight-minute advantage.) According to Intel, Deep Power Down will also help reduce power leakage between transistors, which becomes more of a concern each time the manufacturing process shrinks and more transistors are packed more closely together in a smaller space. Intel's shift to Hafnium-based, high-k metal gates, which Intel trumpets as the biggest change to how transistors are made in 40 years, also will help prevent transistor power leakage. Penryn is also helping Intel get green. The chips are lead free and will be halogen free later in this year. Mobile Penryn: pricing and specs Intel Core 2 Extreme X9000 -- 2.8GHz, 6MB shared L2 cache, $851 Intel Core 2 Duo T9500 -- 2.6GHz, 6MB shared L2 cache, $530 Intel Core 2 Duo T9300 -- 2.5GHz, 6MB shared L2 cache, $316 Intel Core 2 Duo T8300 -- 2.4GHz, 3MB shared L2 cache, $241 Intel Core 2 Duo T8100 -- 2.1GHz, 3MB shared L2 cache, $209 Dell expects to begin shipping the Latitude D630 with the T9300 and the T9500 in February (the T8100 and T8300 won't be listed online but will be available by request). The T9300 and the T9500 will replace the T7700 and T7800 chips currently offered on the Latitude D630 for the same prices. Dell said that Penryn updates to its consumer Inspiron and XPS laptops will soon follow. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Mobile Penryn: early test results Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.