https://www.cnet.com/news/e3-canceled-heres-what-microsoft-ubisoft-and-others-are-doing/
E3 canceled: Here's what Microsoft, Ubisoft and others are doing - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In E3 canceled: Here's what Microsoft, Ubisoft and others are doing Companies are still planning to announce new games and consoles through online streams. Ian Sherr, Sean Keane March 13, 2020 4:02 AM PDT Listen - 02:42 GameSpot For the most up-to-date news and information about the coronavirus pandemic, visit the WHO website. For more than two decades, the Electronic Entertainment Expo, better known as E3, was a summer ritual for game companies to announce new titles and consoles. Now that it's canceled due to coronavirus concerns, game companies say they still plan to hold announcements. Now playing: Watch this: E3 2020 scrapped: What happens now? 4:17 Shortly after the Entertainment Software Association (ESA) announced E3's cancellation on Wednesday, major game makers such as Microsoft and Ubisoft said they were planning online events where they'd stream announcements to fans. Gaming companies are just the latest to cancel events following the spread of the novel coronavirus, which the World Health Organization has officially labeled a pandemic. Local governments around the country have been declaring public health emergencies, barring events and encouraging companies to send employees home. Tech giants like Facebook and Google were forced to cancel their biggest events of the year, typically held in the spring and summer months. Now, Silicon Valley is effectively on lockdown. The video game industry isn't planning to merely cancel E3 though. Companies say they'll announce upcoming games over the internet, likely through livestreams or recorded messages. Now playing: Watch this: E3 canceled: Here is what we know so far 6:14 Here's what they're planning: Microsoft The Xbox maker said it will plan a "digital event" where it will stream announcements of new titles and details of its next-generation Xbox Series X video game console to fans "in the coming weeks." E3 has always been an important moment for Team Xbox. Given this decision, this year we'll celebrate the next generation of gaming with the @Xbox community and all who love to play via an Xbox digital event. Details on timing and more in the coming weeks https://t.co/xckMKBPf9h — Phil Spencer (@XboxP3) March 11, 2020 Nintendo The Mario, Zelda and Switch maker, which typically holds an video streaming "Nintendo Direct" during E3 instead of a press conference, said it'll come up with other ways to make announcements. "We'll continue to be flexible and redirect our efforts to other ways of keeping our fans up to date about our activities and products. We are considering various ways to engage with our fans and will have more to share as the year continues." Electronic Arts (EA) Since 2016, EA has held its own event in Los Angeles just before E3, called EA Play. This year, the company -- known for its FIFA soccer games and Star Wars titles -- said it's still reassessing plans for how it will proceed. "We've continued to follow the coronavirus developments around the world very closely. Clearly the situation is evolving by the day, and we've been reviewing how it will change our plans for EA PLAY 2020. We will share more soon." Ubisoft The French game maker, known for The Division post-apocalytpic action game and Watch Dogs hacking series, said it too will likely put together a video stream announcing new games, though it didn't offer specifics. An update regarding E3 2020. pic.twitter.com/cThkDIkfVm — Ubisoft (@Ubisoft) March 11, 2020 Warner Bros. Games Warner Bros. Games had planned to host its first E3 press conference, Kotaku reported, where it intended to reveal new Batman and Harry Potter games, as well the next game from Arkham series developers Rocksteady Studios. The company didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. Square Enix The Final Fantasy 7 Remake developer said on Twitter that it's "exploring other options" to share its games for 2020 and the next-generation consoles, without offering specifics. An important E3 2020 update from us pic.twitter.com/Ma23eWfHTM — Square Enix (@SquareEnix) March 12, 2020 Coronavirus in pictures: Scenes from around the world 59 Photos E3 2020 See All • reading E3 canceled: Here's what Microsoft, Ubisoft and others are doing • Mar 19 PS5 and Xbox Series X are cool, but show me the games • Mar 18 Doom Eternal: Customizable Slayer, PC specs and everything else we know • Mar 14 SXSW, E3 canceled Comments E3 2020 Culture Tech Industry Gaming Coronavirus Ubisoft Microsoft Notification on Notification off Consoles Close Discuss: E3 canceled: Here's what Microsoft, Ubisoft and others are doing Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.