https://www.cnet.com/news/iphone-price-cut-pundits-scream-3g-iphone/
iPhone price cut: Pundits scream '3G iPhone!' - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In iPhone price cut: Pundits scream '3G iPhone!' The price of the 8GB iPhone has been reduced by a whopping £100 until 1 June, which has got some tech journalists screaming, "3G iPhone!" Andrew Lim June 9, 2008 1:30 PM PDT There's nothing like a price cut announcement to set us tech journalists off like pro-Tibet protesters chasing a flaming baton. Yesterday O2 quietly announced it's going to reduce the price of the 8GB iPhone by a whopping £100 until 1 June -- but before you could say the words, "that's not a bad deal," tech sites everywhere were posting that this is a sign of the 3G iPhone's imminent arrival. It's easy to see why we've all got so hot under the collar, though -- this price cut's end date perfectly coincides with the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference. The conference usually delivers some new Apple goodies and it's not insane to think one of them could be the 3G iPhone. But before we break open our piggy banks and start counting out all the pennies, let's look at what we already know. This morning we had a chat with the peeps at O2, who insisted the price cut is simply an exercise in selling more iPhones and not a way of clearing out stock before the 3G model turns up. The chaps at Carphone Warehouse said they didn't know whether a 3G iPhone is around the corner or not. We couldn't get through to Apple, but we're certain its PRs wouldn't have told us when the 3G iPhone is going to launch anyway -- ninjas that they are. So what's really going on? It could be that the 8GB model is being phased out, and they want to shift stock. Or it could be even simpler. From a consumer perspective, the iPhone has always been very expensive indeed -- we've been campaigning for Apple and O2 to drop the price of the iPhone for some time now. It stands to reason that they've seen the light and realised that here in the UK we don't like paying oodles of boodle for our phones. But before we close the lid on this one and tell you that the 3G iPhone isn't going to launch in June, I must point out that I personally, Andrew Lim, mobile phones editor extraordinaire, was completely wrong about the launch date for the original iPhone and said I'd eat my chair if it came out last year -- which of course it did. So maybe -- just maybe -- all the 3G iPhone speculation is right and it really is coming this summer. In which case I won't be eating any furniture, but I might buy a new iPhone. -Andrew Lim Update: We now have details of the UK 3G iPhone. Comments Phones Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: iPhone price cut: Pundits scream '3G iPhone!' Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.