https://www.cnet.com/news/my-night-as-an-iphone-fanboy/
My night as an iPhone fanboy - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In My night as an iPhone fanboy The iPhone 3G is marked by delays and frustration, but spending the night with the Apple-faithful was fun. Next time, we won't jinx ourselves by joking with any priests. Greg Sandoval July 12, 2008 1:07 PM PDT A bleary-eyed Greg Sandoval, the News.com reporter who spent a night on the street for a chance at the iPhone 3G, interviews blogger Robert Scoble. James Martin/CNET Networks SAN FRANCISCO--The first bad omen for our experience with Apple's iPhone 3G came late Thursday night, when some of us waiting outside the Apple store here may have insulted a priest. Sitting on the sidewalk in front of the store, a group of us, giddy with excitement about Apple's new handset, noticed a priest walk by. "Hi, Father," I quipped. "Tomorrow, will you bless our iPhones?" The priest wasn't amused. Things really took a turn for the worse when someone tried to explain to him why the iPhone was worth the money and a night on the streets. "You have to understand," the man said, straight-faced. "It's the Jesus phone." Of course, he was referring to one of the iPhone's popular nicknames used by fans to describe what they consider awesome power. It dawned on me that I must be the only one in the group who went to Sunday School. I quickly explained that the man didn't mean any disrespect. Now, I can't help wondering whether there was anything divine involved with Apple's system troubles on Friday morning, which resulted in delayed transactions and spotty phone activations, as well as some disappointed customers. Isn't Apple's customer service typically a slice of heaven? During last year's launch of the original iPhone, customers were moved in and out of the store rapidly. In San Francisco on Friday, however, the experience was anything but speedy. After spending about 11 hours in line (I entered at 9:30 p.m. PDT on Thursday), I was one of the lucky first let into the store at 8 a.m. Friday. I didn't leave until 57 minutes later. Out of the first 40 or so people who entered the store, I was the first person to walk out with an iPhone 3G. (Apple employees failed to activate it.) I felt sorry for the poor souls at the tail end of the line. Their day promised to be a long one. The first sign of trouble came after entering the store when Joe Wilson, an Oracle software engineer and the guy who stood in line ahead of me all night, turned to me red-faced and said, "The journalists are taking cuts." Apple let a dozen or so cameramen and photographers into the store to record customers coming in. Some of them decided to hop in line instead of shoot their pictures and video. Not in front of us. Wilson told them very quietly but sternly to move back. To their credit, they did. Then, one by one, each of the customers was instructed to follow an Apple employee to a workstation. That's when the iPhone experience began to look as disorganized and mediocre as that of any other phone retailer. First, I was given the pitch for MobileMe, Apple's package of Internet services and software. This was followed by an explanation of the benefits of a two-year warranty. That was followed with a short discussion about accessories. Then came the big blow: the male employee helping me looked up from his handheld computer and quietly said, "I'm sorry, we're down." I'm told that the iPhone 3G itself will make up for the morning aggravation. Truth be told, I had a blast hanging out with the so-called Apple fanboys and gadget freaks. Sharing food and exchanging news about the iPhone and the new applications, trading insults with people who thought we were goofy for waiting in the cold for "a toy." All of it was worth the trouble. As it turns out, the best thing about Apple is its customers. I shot this video just after being allowed to enter the store and minutes after I was told Apple's system went down. You can see the guy helping me is trying to reboot and other employees are prevented from helping customers. Comments Notification on Notification off Internet Close Discuss: My night as an iPhone fanboy Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.