https://www.cnet.com/news/the-best-meat-delivery-and-subscription-services-2019/
The best meat delivery and subscription services in 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. The best meat delivery and subscription services in 2020 Explore your options for high-quality beef, pork, chicken and seafood all delivered to your door. Jen Wheeler March 19, 2020 4:45 PM PDT Omaha Steaks Even if you're fortunate enough to have access to a selection of prime cuts of juicy steak, organic chicken and quality ground beef (with actual flavor) where you live, you may be finding empty shelves at the store these days -- or maybe you're simply trying to limit your trips outside while you self-isolate at home. Luckily, you can still have high quality meat of all kinds delivered right to your door. We've been big fans of these meat delivery services since their inception, because while we know plant-based eating is important at least some of the time, we still occasionally crave a burger, whether it's seared over open flames on a grill or in our favorite cast iron skillet (meat knows no season, after all) -- and sometimes we're too pressed for time to go farther than our freezer. Others among us don't have a reliable butcher (or good grocery store meat department) nearby. If you fall into either camp, or if you're simply cutting down on public outings right now, meat delivery services and online butchers are here to help make life easier and tastier with a wide variety of choices. Read more: The best meal kit delivery services As with meal kit subscriptions and grocery delivery services, companies providing meat delivery and butcher subscriptions have proliferated in the past several years and with so many meat delivery services many have sought to fill a specific niche sub-category of the market. Some specialize in grass-fed or Wagyu beef while others focus on a wider range of organic cuts of fresh meat, chicken and sausage or hard-to-find meats like wild boar and venison that may not be sold at your neighborhood butcher. Whether you're looking for a great value on meat delivery or specifically seeking out humanely raised and eco-friendly meat, or simply hungry to try the latest, greatest and highest quality meats available (hello, American Wagyu), there's a meat delivery service out there to fit your needs. We started with a little delicious nibble and looked at five of the most popular meat delivery services including the types of meats available, price point, special services, shipping costs and more to help you choose the best one for all your fresh meat needs. We'll keep this up to date with new offers and services as we come across them. ButcherBox Butcher Box Please note: As of March 27 ButcherBox has implemented a waitlist for all new members due to high order volume. Please check back as we will update this article when circumstances change. ButcherBox is a subscription service that offers three types of meat, but puts an emphasis on its 100% grass-fed and grass-finished, pasture-raised beef from cows that are free to roam (grass-fed beef is said to be higher in antioxidants, vitamins and healthy fatty acids, is often more environmentally friendly since it's pastured and not raised on feedlots, and has a purer beefy taste). The company also offers heritage breed pork from pigs with plentiful outdoor access and an all-vegetarian diet from forage and feed, and free-range, organic chicken that's humanely raised, with no antibiotics or added hormones. It makes a point of mentioning that it works with "the best possible meat processing facilities" and believe in fair labor practices too. When you sign up, you can choose from all beef, beef and chicken, beef and pork, a mixed box or create a custom box. In any case, you select from two different box sizes depending on how many people you're feeding (or how big your freezer is). Prices vary, but plans start at $129 per month. If you like complete control, the Custom Box is $149 per month (or $4.97 per meal), and allows you to take your pick of over 20 different cuts like ground beef, top sirloin steaks, chuck roast, pork tenderloin, boneless pork chops, chicken breasts and drumsticks. All of the meat ships vacuum-packed and frozen, and shipping is free. As a bonus, the company is usually running some sort of promotion, like free bacon for the life of your subscription or 2 pounds of sockeye salmon. See at ButcherBox Snake River Farms Snake River Farms Snake River Farms meat delivery service (and its partner, Double R Ranch) offer something truly special: not only dry-aged, USDA Prime beef, but American Wagyu (Kobe-style) beef, known for its rich marbling, tender texture and fantastic flavor. All of its cows are raised sustainably and humanely in the Northwest, and it offers heritage breed Kurobuta Berkshire pork from pigs raised on small family farms in Idaho and the Midwest. In addition to its exclusive (and accordingly expensive), chef-approved cuts of rare steak, it touts several sustainable ranching practices, from rotational grazing that promotes healthy rangelands to composting cattle waste and using beef tallow for fuel. Even the shipping foam in its boxes can be dissolved and used as plant food, composted or used as a fire starter. In addition, the company is a founding member of Beef Counts, which helps provide food to families in need. But you're here for the Wagyu. While the company doesn't offer recurring subscriptions, you can buy all sorts of individual cuts like American Wagyu tomahawk steaks ($50 per pound), filet mignon, porterhouse and ribeye, not to mention Wagyu burgers and hot dogs (and don't forget about its Kurobuta bacon and baby back ribs). When it comes to Snake River Farms Wagyu, most products are offered in both Gold Grade (the highest quality -- and price -- available), and Black Grade (still special but slightly less devastating to the wallet). You can also purchase variety-pack gift boxes, some curated by chefs like Thomas Keller and Naomi Pomeroy. As with most other meat delivery services, your cuts will come vacuum-sealed and frozen. Shipping cost varies, depending on how quickly you'd like to chow down. See at Snake River Farms Rastelli's Rastelli's Rastelli's started out as a small butcher shop in New Jersey serving their local community, but they've always put a premium on the best meat possible and are driven by a love of good food. Today, they ship beef, poultry and seafood across the US from farms that produce responsibly raised meats free of antibiotics, steroids and hormones (or sourcing wild-caught and sustainably raised seafood like Faroe Island salmon). Plans start at $79 for a chicken and burgers box but vary depending on which of the options you choose -- and there are several. Other boxes contain all beef (both steaks and ground beef), a mix of beef and seafood, chicken and seafood or all seafood like a tuna and shrimp combo. You can buy any box as a one-off purchase but will save 10% if you subscribe. Check out Rastelli's Meat & Cheese Crate for holiday entertaining. See at Rastelli's Porter Road Porter Road Based in Nashville, Porter Road offers a variety of cuts of prime beef, pork, lamb and chicken, sourced from Kentucky and Tennessee. Its beef is pasture-raised, grass-fed and grain-finished, but the company uses no added hormones or antibiotics and the animals are free to roam and graze. Like Snake River Farms, it uses corn-based foam insulation in its boxes, so you can use it to fire up your grill and cook the skirt steak that came in the same package. Most of the company's meat is shipped fresh, but depending on the cut, some pieces will be frozen. You can order a la carte (from more traditional options like pork chops, NY strip steaks, ribeye and ground beef, to less common cuts like Denver steak, lamb T-bones and andouille sausage made with fresh ingredients), or choose from several box options, including all beef, pork and beef, or a "best of" assortment that arrives every two, four or eight weeks. You can add items onto your subscription too ("put a bird on it" if you're feeling like chicken next week). The basic box is $50 (or $4.69 per serving), but specialty selections like the Breakfast Box are also available -- while summer is well and gone, you can still snag the "Grill Master Box" with dry-aged steaks, dry-aged burger patties and brats for $70 (six pounds of meat total, or $6.56 per serving), with free shipping. See at Porter Road Omaha Steaks Omaha Steaks Omaha Steaks -- one of the first-ever meat delivery services -- bills itself as "America's Original Butcher" and has certainly been in the carnivore-feeding business for a long time. Keeping up with the growing preference for grass-fed beef, both grain- and grass-fed are now offered (and both options start with grass-fed but their signature beef is grain-finished); read more about how each option compares. The company doesn't advertise organic meat like many others do, nor provide much specific information about how and where the animals are raised, but does stand behind "a nearly 100-year tradition of providing customers premium, aged, and hand-trimmed beef with a 100% satisfaction guarantee." There's also a lot more on offer besides the namesake product. Truly, the range of items on the site is somewhat staggering. From various cuts of beef (steak galore, of course, including "king cuts" you would probably struggle to finish even if you hadn't eaten for a week), bison, veal, pork, chicken and seafood, to charcuterie, full meal kits, a la carte side dishes and desserts, wines and even dog treats, this could be a one-stop web shop. While it doesn't offer subscriptions by name, there are plenty of gift boxes (like an $80-a-month Steak Box or a Monthly Grilling Box for the same price) that you could certainly order for yourself. Another interesting thing it offers: butcher services where you can consult one-on-one with a butcher to custom order precisely what you want. Shipping prices vary based on order total and how fast you want your stuff, but you can find some "free shipping" deals and combos on the site. There's also a Steaklover Reward Points program for committed carnivores. Right now, you can get free shipping and 50% off sitewide when you place an order of $69 or more. See at Omaha Steaks Thrive Market Thrive Market Online grocery provider Thrive Market is also a one-stop shop, in a somewhat more traditional sense: It sells all manner of organic, 100% non-GMO, fair-trade products at wholesale prices, so you can buy various brands of things like paper towels, marinades and snacks -- and bundled boxes of meat and seafood. To shop from the site, you must pay a $60 annual membership fee (which nets you guaranteed savings and free gifts, plus sponsors a free membership for a low-income family), but you can sign up for a 30-day free trial to test it out first. The company guarantees you'll make back your membership in savings every year, but if not, will give you store credit for the difference. The company's meat delivery options include several boxes (a la carte cuts are not available), which feature 100% grass-fed, free-range beef from small and midsize, family-run ranches in Chile that don't use antibiotics or hormones; certified free-range and organic chicken from family-owned farms in Virginia; antibiotic- and hormone-free, pasture-raised pork from a family-owned farm in Georgia; and both wild-caught and sustainably farmed seafood like fish, shrimp and scallops. You can choose from single-protein boxes or mixed packs like the Thrive Market Meat Sampler (11.75 pounds of chicken, beef and pork for $110, or $3.51 per serving), and can also curate your own meat and seafood box if you like to pick and choose (average cost $5.95 per serving). Shipping is free on all orders over $49. See at Thrive Market More subscriptions... and meats Find the best wine clubs and subscriptions for your taste Best razor and shaving subscriptions of 2020: Harry's, Dollar Shave Club, Billie and More Best coolers Best sausages to order online The best portable grills for city dwellers and tailgaters CNET Smart Home See All • reading The best meat delivery and subscription services in 2020 • Mar 27 Here's the best Wi-Fi range extender for almost everybody • Mar 27 The best coffee grinder you can buy right now • Mar 26 9 online cooking classes to keep you full and fulfilled • Mar 26 Ode to the $5 pot scraper Comments CNET Smart Home Appliances Health and Wellness Notification on Notification off Smart home Close Discuss: The best meat delivery and subscription services in 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.