https://www.cnet.com/news/occipital-structure-core-is-a-depth-sensing-camera-for-future-robots-drones-and-ar-headsets/
This depth-sensing camera from Occipital can make 3D scans of your environment in seconds - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In This depth-sensing camera from Occipital can make 3D scans of your environment in seconds The $599 early-access version arrives in December, with the official product coming in March for $399. Scott Stein November 29, 2018 9:00 AM PST Sarah Tew/CNET The world is filled with depth-sensing camera tech now: in 3D body scanners, drones, AR headsets such as the HoloLens and Magic Leap, and iPhones. But Structure Core, the first in-house depth-sensing camera from Boulder, Colorado-based Occipital, aims to be a self-contained component that could let researchers or creators build their own solutions fast. The module connects with Windows, Linux, Android and Macs (sorry, iOS developers). It also has some key improvements over the original 2013-era Structure sensor. A version of that model connected to the iPad, and offered an early look at where AR technology would head next. The Structure Core: A self-contained little set of depth sensors. Sarah Tew/CNET Occipital developed that original Structure sensor with PrimeSense, the Israeli company whose tech also powered the original Microsoft Kinect. Apple acquired PrimeSense in 2013, which led to the Face ID-sensing TrueDepth camera on iPhones and the iPad Pro. According to Occipital, the original Structure sensor sold close to 100,000 units, and had nearly 9,000 developers, which led to 120 apps for the platform. Structure Core is available to preorder now, in both a self-enclosed version and a module designed to be embedded into another piece of electronics, like an AR headset or robot prototype. Occipital will sell the sensor in waves: an early-access run arriving in "the next two weeks" will cost $599; a second wave hitting in January will cost $499. The main release, targeted for March of next year, will cost $399. Up close and personal with Structure Core I got a quick demo of what Structure Core could do with Occipital's Vikas Reddy and Adam Rodnitzky. Compared to the first Structure camera, the new Structure Core can sense motion far better, and pull depth information faster. The Structure Core senses 3D detail and depth up to around 5 meters (16 feet) away via infrared projection, and can sense even further with its other cameras. There are dual infrared cameras plus a 160-degree black and white camera and an 85-degree color camera, along with self-contained six degrees of freedom motion tracking with a built-in six-axis IMU. It makes this new sensor, essentially, a self-contained motion-sensing computer vision camera rig. Occipital's co-founder Vikas Reddy shows what the Structure Core sees in our office. Sarah Tew/CNET In a few moments, co-founder Vikas Reddy connected Structure Core and quickly scanned our office lobby, creating 3D scans of the floor, walls and furniture, and even building a map of the room's core features. Occipital imagines Structure Core being used in drones, where the USB 3-connected camera is light and fast enough to be a part of a rapid navigation system. Or in robots: Misty, the home robotics company that's spun off from Sphero (and is also based in Boulder), is using a version of Occipital's Structure Core in the head of its Misty II robot. Occipital is already working with farmers exploring the camera's use for improving robotic berry picking, or on drones to create flying scans of hard-to-reach locations for projects such as repair work. A pair of Structure Core sensors embedded in a drone. Occipital For anyone dreaming of making a mixed-reality headset, or playing around with making autonomous robots or vehicles or drones, or for researchers looking to have advanced computer-vision cameras, a module like Structure Core could be a useful and fascinating tool. And, ultimately, it has to be. Competition in the space is heating up, with the likes of Google (owner of Lytro light-field camera technology and the current leader in consumer camera-based AI), Apple (with the iPhone's TrueDepth camera and ARKit's progress), Microsoft (HoloLens 2 rumors and mixed reality advancements) and even smaller companies like Skydio (autonomous consumer drones) ramping up increasingly impressive computer-vision products as the calendar counts down to what will undoubtedly be an even more competitive 2019. The 40 best Cyber Monday 2018 deals still available 60 Photos Read more: The best gifts for 2018 Read more: The best gifts under $50 Comments Wearable Tech Augmented reality (AR) Drones Robots Kinect Google Microsoft Apple Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: This depth-sensing camera from Occipital can make 3D scans of your environment in seconds Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.