https://www.cnet.com/news/air-fryer-vs-convection-oven-which-one-should-you-choose/
Air fryer vs. convection oven: What's the best way to cook? - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Air fryer vs. convection oven: What's the best way to cook? Air fryers are inexpensive and space-saving, but could a convection oven or even your old toaster oven still be the best bet for crispy, crunchy snacks? Molly Price February 1, 2020 5:00 AM PST Chris Monroe/CNET I've been to more than my fair share of state fairs, and I've found one thing to be true: everything tastes better deep-fried. But I will concede that dunking breaded foods into searing hot oil is perhaps not the healthiest culinary technique, and air fryers are a popular alternative. You'll get a crispy finished product without all the oil. Good for us, air fryers are everywhere lately. These trendy countertop fryers are certainly convenient. On the other hand, people have been serving up chicken wings and bagel bites from ovens and toaster ovens for decades now. So which method makes the most sense? Here's a look at the pros and cons of convection ovens, air fryers and toaster ovens. Air fryers: One-trick ponies or specialty must-haves? Air fryers work by circulating hot air around your food. That's the same approach traditional convection ovens take, but there are a few key differences. Colin McDonald/CNET While a full-size convection oven and an air fryer both use a fan to move hot air around, an air fryer circulates the air more rapidly inside a small chamber, speeding up the cooking process. Air fryers also employ a basket to more evenly circulate hot air around the bottom of your food. Popular air fryers like the Simple Chef HF-898 can cost as little as $66, and fit right on your countertop. Air fryers are healthier than deep frying and there's no risk of an oily mess. Should you buy one? Probably not, but that depends on what you're cooking. We've tested air fryers before, and found that while they do what they claim, most foods come out just as good or better in a conventional oven. Still, certain foods tend to be better-suited for air frying. Breaded foods like mozzarella sticks, chicken nuggets and jalapeño poppers tend to fare better than something like baked chicken wings or burger patties. Convection ovens: Time-tested, mother-approved If you have a full-size convection oven in your home and don't eat a lot of frozen, fried foods, an air fryer might be a harder sell. Convection ovens use similar technology and, in many cases, produce equally good or better-tasting foods than a countertop air fryer. If your oven doesn't include convection, an air fryer might help bridge the gap when it comes to crispy cooking. How do you know if your oven uses convection baking? Check the back wall. Convection ovens include a fan built into the rear of the oven. They are available in gas or electric and result in nice, even baking. Some ovens include both regular (fan off) and convection (fan on) modes. Some higher-end ovens include "true" or "European" modes, where a heating element surrounds the fan for extra-heated air. You won't get a basket for circulating air underneath your food, but using a roasting rack or pan goes a long way in replicating the air flow. Capacity is one more big consideration. A full-size oven will be able to cook much more food than a standard air fryer. If you're hosting friends or cooking for a large family, an oven will eliminate the need for multiple batches. Chris Monroe/CNET There are plenty of smart convection options for your countertop, too. If you're interested in smart food recognition, the $499 June Oven is your best bet for AI that helps you cook specific dishes to perfection. Amazon released its own $250 countertop convection oven (that's also a microwave). It delivered great whole chickens in our testing, works with Alexa voice commands and can scan packaged foods for custom cooking. No, convection is not a cool new way to cook your food. And yes, a regular oven uses more energy and takes more time to preheat. Still, convection baking outperformed air fryers in many of our taste tests, especially when it comes to food that isn't breaded or frozen. In the market for a new oven? Our oven buying guide is a great place to start. Air fryers are a cool concept, but are they worth the price? 11 Photos Toaster ovens: A mediocre middleman Want every function in one tiny box? Say hello to the toaster oven. This wild card appliance claims to do so much with so little. Optimized for snacks and appetizers, toaster ovens can be useful for some foods. Small batches of foods like pizza bites, mozzarella sticks and even cookies do well enough in a toaster oven. You can choose from specialty modes for certain foods like cookies or pizza, and some models even include air frying. Our current favorite is the $150 Panasonic FlashXpress, a toaster oven that aced our tests and boasts thousands of great customer reviews. Once you get into things like actual toast or a pizza big enough for more than one person, toaster ovens aren't the best option. Put your toast in a toaster and your pizza in an oven. That's how you'll get the best results. That's not to say toaster ovens aren't worth it. They certainly offer more functionality than an air fryer. They preheat faster and use slightly less energy than a full-size oven, and you don't have to blow your budget to purchase one. If you're looking for a less than full-size baking appliance, I'd go for a toaster oven with an air-fry option before I'd purchase an air fryer on its own. Conclusion If your apartment doesn't have a full-size oven, a toaster oven is the way to go. Try one with an air fryer function built in, and you'll get the most versatility for your buck. If you already own an oven, especially one with convection, you won't be blown away by an air fryer's performance. If you're a fan of breaded, frozen foods, having an air fryer around saves time and energy compared with a convection oven and cooks them nearly as well. Like so many parts of a kitchen, deciding to add small appliances comes down to personal factors like budget, counter space and how often you cook certain types of foods. Each of these appliance has pros and cons. At the end of the day, the best appliance for you is the one you'll use the most. Read more: Best air fryers of 2019: Philips, Cuisinart, Black and Decker and more Take a look at Amazon's new food-scanning smart oven Best Dutch oven in 2020 Now playing: Watch this: How to buy a toaster oven that isn't terrible 2:12 CNET Smart Home See All • reading Air fryer vs. convection oven: What's the best way to cook? • Mar 27 How to keep your bread fresh for longer • Mar 27 The best Wi-Fi extender for almost everybody • Mar 27 The best coffee grinder you can buy right now • Mar 26 9 online cooking classes to keep you full and fulfilled Comments CNET Smart Home Small Appliances Frigidaire Electrolux Panasonic Cuisinart Bosch Notification on Notification off Ovens Close Discuss: Air fryer vs. convection oven: What's the best way to cook? Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.