https://www.cnet.com/news/verizon-looking-to-buy-alltel-again/
Verizon looking to buy Alltel, again? - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Verizon looking to buy Alltel, again? Alltel, which was sold to private equity firms a year ago, could be up for sale again--and Verizon Wireless may be in talks to buy it. Marguerite Reardon June 4, 2008 4:13 PM PDT Verizon Wireless is taking another look at buying regional wireless operator Alltel, according to a story published Wednesday afternoon by The Wall Street Journal. The deal, which could be valued at around $27 billion, is at a sensitive stage and could fall through over the next few days, the newspaper reported. Alltel was sold only last year for $27.5 billion to the buyout arm of Goldman Sachs and private equity firm TPG Capital. And, according to the Journal, the banks that financed the deal, including Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, Barclays, and Royal Bank of Scotland Group, still owe about $24 billion in loans and bond financing. But the firms see a sale to Verizon as a way to cut their losses on the financing. The article said a person familiar with the deal said the banks would get a nominal return on their investment. A takeover of Alltel by Verizon Wireless would create the largest cell phone operator in the country with some 80 million subscribers. AT&T, which is currently the nation's largest cell phone provider, reported at the end of last quarter that it has 71.4 million customers. Verizon Wireless, jointly owned by Verizon Communications and U.K.-based Vodafone Group, would gain customers mainly in the Midwest and South where Alltel operates. A merged company of this size would no doubt be scrutinized by regulators in the Department of Justice and the Federal Communications Commission. And it's likely that Verizon would have to divest some of its assets in markets where the companies overlap. But that said, Verizon Wireless is the most likely competitor to acquire Alltel. The two companies both use the CDMA (code division multiple access) cellular technology. And they also share a similar technology road map. Earlier this year, Alltel said it would use a next-generation wireless technology called LTE to build its 4G network, the same technology Verizon has said it will use to build its 4G network. As for any other potential buyers, Sprint Nextel, the other CDMA carrier in the U.S., is in no position to make a big acquisition like this one. The company has seen its subscribers and profits plummet since the failed merger with Nextel in 2005. In fact, some analysts speculate that Sprint Nextel is also on the auction block. The company has already spun off its WiMax division to combine it with Clearwire's network assets. And rumors have floated around that German-based Deutsche Telekom has been eying it, although this seems highly unlikely. T-Mobile and AT&T are unlikely bidders for the company since they use a different technology called GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications). Verizon Wireless was among the companies that considered buying Alltel last year when the company first started shopping itself around. And rumors had circulated back in 2005 that Verizon was interested in purchasing the regional cell phone operator. Both times the company didn't make its move. Verizon Wireless currently has the strongest network in terms of quality and customer base. It's highly profitable and has low levels of turnover, so there's no real reason the company needs Alltel. It seems to be doing just fine on its own. Still, a major move by Verizon could spark even more consolidation in the cellular market. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Verizon looking to buy Alltel, again? Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.