https://www.cnet.com/news/audiophile-odyssey-behind-the-scenes-at-b-w-meridian-and-abbey-road-studios/
Audiophile Odyssey: Behind the Scenes at B&W, Meridian, and Abbey Road Studios - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Audiophile Odyssey: Behind the Scenes at B&W, Meridian, and Abbey Road Studios On a recent UK trip, I got to visit the factories of high-end speaker company B&W, speaker and electronics company Meridian, and the legendary Abbey Road Studios. Here are those adventures, in pictures and words. Geoffrey Morrison October 4, 2013 12:52 PM PDT Geoffrey Morrison Among the ancient castles, quaint houses, and picturesque countryside, Great Britain is actually a hotbed of high-end audio. Brands big and small pepper the island country from the southern coast to the northern highlands. On a recent trip, I had the opportunity to visit three such storied companies: Bowers & Wilkins (speakers and headphones), Meridian (electronics and speakers), and Abbey Road Studios (where the Beatles and Pink Floyd recorded). It was a long day. OK, day and a half. Getting up at 6 a.m. while you're on vacation isn't ideal. That it was little rainy (in London, shocker!) didn't help. From Paddington where I was staying, it was a quick trip south on the Circle line to Victoria station, and my train to Worthing, a tiny town on the southern coast. Home to B&W. A taxi at the train station, when I gave him the address, said "Bowers & Wilkins, eh?" Like I said, not a big town. Spread across a number of industrial buildings within walking distance to the water, B&W designs and tests its myriad products, and builds most of its high-end speakers. Going on tour at Bowers & Wilkins (pictures) 33 Photos For the full behind-the-scenes with videos, check out "Going behind the scenes at the Bowers & Wilkins factory." After a quick lunch of surprisingly tasty mini-sandwiches, it was time for the second leg of my adventure. This time, it was a car bound north, back past London, to the town of Huntingdon, northwest of Cambridge. Where Worthing looked the part of a British seaside town, Huntingdon looked every bit the little English hamlet, Tudor houses and all. As Meridian is primarily an electronics company (though they make speakers too), their building was smaller than B&W's spread. Though the methods to manufacture electronics varies little across different companies and industries, what happens after production varies a lot. In Meridian's case, extensive testing of each board ensures that every product performs exactly as the designers intended. Going up close at the Meridian Audio factory (pictures) 18 Photos For the full look (with videos), check out "Getting to know the Meridian Audio factory." We wrapped up close to dinnertime, and it was another long drive back into London. While both tours were fantastic, the next day held the promise of something even more amazing: Abbey Road Studios. If you're a fan of British rock, or even just British music in general, you've probably heard about Abbey Road Studios. The Beatles recorded all their albums there. Pink Floyd recorded nearly all of their greatest there. Radiohead, Queen, Oasis, and dozens of others did, too. Standing in a place with such history was incredible. Check out all the behind-the-scenes pictures, including the most expensive piano you've ever seen (and would never guess about): Abbey Road Studios Tour (pictures) 22 Photos For the full tour info, check out the aptly named "Take a tour of Abbey Road Studios." In a day and a half I certainly got to see a fascinating cross-section of both ends of the British audio scene. From speakers and electronics to the actual recording spaces, it was a quite a treat for this audiophile. Got a question for Geoff? First, check out all the other articles he's written on topics like HDMI cables, LED LCD vs. plasma, active versus passive 3D, and more. Still have a question? Send him an e-mail! He won't tell you what TV to buy, but he might use your letter in a future article. You can also send him a message on Twitter @TechWriterGeoff or Google+. Comments Home Entertainment Culture Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Audiophile Odyssey: Behind the Scenes at B&W, Meridian, and Abbey Road Studios Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.