https://www.cnet.com/news/verizon-launches-5g-in-nfl-stadiums-across-the-us/
Verizon launches 5G in NFL stadiums across the US - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Verizon launches 5G in NFL stadiums across the US By the start of the season, 13 football stadiums will have the new mobile network. Corinne Reichert September 5, 2019 6:30 AM PDT Verizon and AT&T are launching 5G across NFL stadiums. Angela Lang/CNET Verizon is launching its new 5G network in NFL stadiums across the nation, with 13 to be live by the start of the 2019-20 football season. The service will be focused on the seated areas but could also be available in and around the stadiums. Verizon said it will bring 5G to more stadiums throughout the NFL's 100th season. 5G, already launched in some parts of the US by Verizon, AT&T, Sprint and T-Mobile, is being tapped by smartphones to provide faster speeds and more capacity. Verizon in August announced the expansion of its 5G network to Atlanta, Detroit, Indianapolis and Washington, DC, in addition to already being live in Chicago, Denver, Minneapolis-St. Paul and Providence. But Verizon's stadium-focused 5G launch will see the new network go live in parts of other cities, the carrier said Thursday. CNET's 5G coverage Verizon vs AT&T vs T-Mobile vs Sprint: Choose the best 5G carrier The 6 hardest truths we've learned about 5G Stadiums that'll have 5G by the start of the season include Gillette Stadium (New England Patriots), MetLife Stadium (New York Giants and New York Jets), Hard Rock Stadium (Miami Dolphins), Broncos Stadium at Mile High (Denver Broncos), CenturyLink Field (Seattle Seahawks), Soldier Field (Chicago Bears), U.S. Bank Stadium (Minnesota Vikings), Bank of America Stadium (Carolina Panthers), Ford Field (Detroit Lions), Lucas Oil Stadium (Indianapolis Colts), M&T Bank Stadium (Baltimore Ravens) and NRG Stadium (Houston Texans). Verizon CEO Hans Vestberg called the project "a key moment in our partnership with the NFL. "We expect the impact on the sports entertainment industry to be massive," Vestberg added. "It promises to revolutionize the entire game-day experience for fans." Without getting specific, Roger Goodell, NFL Commissioner, said 5G would "enhance the game-day experience ... in a number of different ways." Meanwhile, AT&T also revealed Thursday how its 5G network at the Dallas Cowboys' home stadium will be used. "Throughout the season, we plan to offer four unique 5G activations that will begin to change the way fans interact with the game, including life-size digital versions of star players and live stats overlaid on the field using the Samsung Galaxy S10 5G," AT&T said. As well as seeing the players and touchdown dances up close, people with a Galaxy S10 5G at AT&T Stadium in Dallas will be able to track team performance and view live stats using augmented reality. Samsung, LG, Motorola: How soon can we expect 5G phones? 13 Photos Comments Phones Virtual Reality Apps 5G AT&T Sprint T-Mobile Verizon Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Verizon launches 5G in NFL stadiums across the US Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.