https://www.cnet.com/news/verizons-plan-to-sell-huawei-phone-suffocated-by-political-pressure/
Verizon's Huawei deal squashed under government pressure - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Verizon's plan to sell Huawei phone suffocated by political pressure Verizon hoped to sell Chinese phone maker Huawei's Mate 10 Pro phone, but a new report says the deal is kaput because of political pressure. Joan E. Solsman January 30, 2018 8:03 AM PST Chinese phone maker Huawei has had difficulty breaking though in the US with it's phone like the Mate 10 Pro. Josh Miller/CNET Huawei's ambitions to sell its phones in the US appear to remain just out of reach. Verizon is abandoning a plan to sell phones made by the popular Chinese device maker because of US government worries about security risk, according to a Bloomberg report Tuesday that cited unnamed people familiar with the matter. Huawei has been pushing to sell its Mate 10 Pro phone as one of the first to handle the super-fast 5G networks that US carriers are building. But some lawmakers and US agencies fear 5G phones made by companies close to the Chinese government could expose the US to security threats, according to the report. Huawei said it doesn't comment on rumors, speculation or future roadmaps. Verizon didn't respond to a request to comment. AT&T pulled out of a deal to sell the Huawei Mate 10 Pro earlier this month, also reportedly a victim of congressional pressure. Huawei, the third-largest phone maker globally in terms of units shipped, has long yearned to break into the US market, turning to lobbyists and public-relations teams to improve awareness and goodwill for the company and its devices. But it has been plagued by difficult US relations partly because it also develops network equipment to route sensitive data around the internet. It has repeatedly dismissed the idea that it is in cozy with the Chinese military and government. First published Jan. 30, 8:03 a.m. PT Update, 10:13 a.m.: Adds Huawei comment. Comments Politics Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Verizon's plan to sell Huawei phone suffocated by political pressure Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.