https://www.cnet.com/news/best-phones-under-500-pixel-3a-xl-galaxy-a50-moto-g7-and-more/
10 best phones under $500: iPhone 8, Pixel 3A, Galaxy A50 and more - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. 10 best phones under $500: iPhone 8, Pixel 3A, Galaxy A50 and more If you're looking for a phone on a budget, check out CNET's top 10 picks. Lynn La February 27, 2020 3:00 AM PST Leer en español Apple iPhone 8 Jump to details $350 at Best Buy Samsung Galaxy A50 Jump to details $290 at Amazon Motorola Moto Z4 Jump to details $500 at Walmart LG G8 ThinQ with Alexa Jump to details $753 at Walmart Google Pixel 3A XL Jump to details $379 at Walmart Google Pixel 3A Jump to details $300 at Walmart Samsung Galaxy S8 Jump to details $384 at Amazon Motorola Moto G7 Jump to details $299 at Walmart Motorola Moto G7 Power Jump to details $219 at Amazon Show more (4 items) With top-tier phones like the Galaxy S20 Ultra and iPhone 11 Pro Max starting at more than $1,000, it's easy to feel that great phones are getting more expensive and out of your budget. But as some phones are getting pricier, budget phones are getting more advanced and packing premium features of their own. There are lots of affordable devices that are fast, take great photos and offer modern-day software features that won't break the bank. While many of our picks for the best phone under $500 came out in the past several months, some handsets in this roundup launched before that, in 2018. That doesn't mean they're obsolete -- most of them still have high-end processors and a good camera that you can get for way less than when they first launched. Note that we've linked to the unlocked version of each phone, and they should run on most of the big four US wireless carriers (unless specified otherwise). Read more: Best phones of 2020 Best Android phones of 2020 Best prepaid phones of 2020 Now playing: Watch this: Best cheap phones to try now 2:02 Apple iPhone 8 Sarah Tew/CNET Though it debuted in 2017, the iPhone 8 is still a solid phone, and it's the cheapest iPhone that you can still buy from Apple for new. The phone packs in plenty of great features like water resistance, wireless charging, a more durable solid-state home button and still really good cameras. Read our Apple iPhone 8 review. $350 at Best Buy $600 at Boost Mobile $450 at Sprint Samsung Galaxy A50 Angela Lang/CNET The Galaxy A50 is part of Samsung's A-series, which is much cheaper than the top-tier S-series of phones. At around $300, this budget smartphone is one of your cheapest Galaxy smartphone options and features 6.4 inches of display, an in-screen fingerprint reader and a headphone jack. On the back are three cameras that include a wide-angle lens as well as a "depth lens," which is used to take portrait shots with blurry, dramatic backgrounds. Read our Samsung Galaxy A50 review. $290 at Amazon Read more: Which Samsung Galaxy phone should you buy? We compare all 9 of them Motorola Moto Z4 Angela Lang/CNET The Moto Z4 launched in May 2019 without much fanfare, despite the fact that it's one of the few phones that can connect to 5G. It works with a Moto Mod modular accessory, which attaches to the back of the smartphone using magnetic pins. The phone is $400 and the Mod costs extra, but even with the additional costs, the Z4 is one of the cheapest 5G phones available now. Read our Motorola Moto Z4 review. $500 at Walmart Read more: Moto Z4 is a midrange phone and a Verizon 5G early-adopter machine LG G8 ThinQ with Alexa Angela Lang/CNET LG is selling its premium LG G8 with Alexa for $500 -- a big discount from its original $850 launch price. As one of the last few high-end phones with a headphone jack, the G8 stands out as a rarity. But the device also has a bright, sharp screen, a second wide-angle rear camera, a fast processor and water resistance. Read our LG G8 ThinQ review. $753 at Walmart $600 at Best Buy $600 at B&H Photo-Video Google Pixel 3A XL Angela Lang/CNET The Pixel 3A XL has everything you like about the Pixel 3A (which is also on this list), but in a larger package. Sporting a 6-inch OLED display compared to the Pixel 3A's 5.6-inch screen, the bigger counterpart also features a larger 3,700-mAh battery. Read our Google Pixel 3A XL review. $379 at Walmart $379 at B&H Photo-Video $380 at Best Buy Read more: LG G8 ThinkQ is LG's dual screen bid to win over the high-end phone market Motorola Moto G7 Play Sarah Tew/CNET The often discounted Moto G7 Play is one of our favorite affordable Android phones. Like the pricier Moto G7 (which we'll get to later), it has a Snapdragon 632 processor and a water-repellent coating. But the G7 Play features a smaller 5.7-inch display and a single 13-megapixel camera. For those who like to take a lot of selfies, on the front of the phone you'll find a selfie camera flash to brighten up all those memorable moments. Read more about the Moto G7 Play. Read more: Moto G7 for $300, and all the rest: How to tell all four new Moto G7 phones apart Google Pixel 3A Angela Lang/CNET The Pixel 3A shaves a few features off of 2018's Pixel 3: It's not water resistant, doesn't have wireless charging, and it maxes out at 64GB of storage. But it costs $399, adds a headphone jack and keeps the same amazing Night Sight camera that can shoot great photos in the dark. (Daytime photos and video recording look amazing, too.) The device is compatible with all the major US phone carriers as well. Read our Google Pixel 3A review. $300 at Walmart $300 at Best Buy $399 at Sprint Read more: Sorry Samsung, the Google Pixel 3A is 2019's most important phone Samsung Galaxy S8 Josh Miller/CNET It's been three years since its launch but the Galaxy S8 is still a phone worthy of consideration. It's water resistant, has wireless charging, expandable storage and a headphone jack. Plus, its curved OLED display screen lends the phone a modern-day look that still endures. Read our Samsung Galaxy S8 review. $384 at Amazon $274 at eBay Motorola Moto G7 Angela Lang/CNET The Moto G7 may not be as cheap as its G7 Play counterpart, but at $300, it's still a good deal. Though its single speaker doesn't offer the greatest sound, and it takes mediocre low-light photos and video, the Moto G7 has dual rear cameras, an enduring battery life and a sleek design. It also charges quickly, which is useful when you need to juice up while on the go. Read our Motorola Moto G7 review. $299 at Walmart $300 at Best Buy $300 at B&H Photo-Video Motorola Moto G7 Power Sarah Tew/CNET Though it doesn't have dual rear cameras like Motorola's current flagship, the Moto G7 Power has a powerful battery. Its 5,000-mAh battery lasted 23 hours, 10 minutes, making it the option with the longest-lasting battery life. Keep in mind that Motorola recently announced this phone's predecessor, the Moto G Power, in February. Read the Moto G7 Power review. $219 at Amazon Comments Android Update Phones Google Lenovo LG Motorola Razer Samsung Apple OnePlus Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: 10 best phones under $500: iPhone 8, Pixel 3A, Galaxy A50 and more Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.