https://www.cnet.com/news/got-a-holiday-gift-card-best-bets-under-50-at-amazon-best-buy-walmart/
Got a holiday gift card? Best bets under $50 at Amazon, Best Buy and Walmart - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Got a holiday gift card? Best bets under $50 at Amazon, Best Buy and Walmart Redeem that Christmas cash for speakers, headphones, toys, movies and more. David Carnoy, Rick Broida, Dave Johnson January 4, 2020 11:03 AM PST Leer en español EarFun Free True wireless on a budget Jump to details $50 at Amazon Once Upon in Hollywood 4K Ultra HD Blu-ray 4K movie for that new 4K TV Jump to details $28 at Amazon Sphero Mini Soccer Affordable STEM toy Jump to details $37 at Amazon Coast HP7 LED Flashlight The gift of light Jump to details $35 at Amazon Chemex 6-Cup Classic Coffeemaker A timeless brewing device Jump to details $41 at Amazon Logitech MX Anywhere 2S Premium mobile mouse Jump to details $50 at Amazon Gunnar Optiks blue-light blocking glasses Computer eyestrain reliever Jump to details See at Amazon RAVPower 61W Dual-Port Charger Best do-it-all USB charger Jump to details $30 at Amazon Xcentz Portable Charger 10,000 mAh Compact high-capacity portable battery Jump to details See at Amazon TaoTronics True Wireless Earbuds Affordable true wireless Jump to details $35 at Amazon Logitech K380 keyboard Compact keyboard Jump to details $30 at Amazon Tribit XSound Go Budget Bluetooth speaker that sounds good Jump to details $33 at Amazon Eufy Smart Scale P1 Healthy gift Jump to details $45 at Amazon JBL Clip 3 A waterproof wireless speaker that's great for home or travel Jump to details $70 at Walmart UE Wonderboom Portable Bluetooth speaker with punch Jump to details $40 at Best Buy JLabs JBuds Air True wireless earbuds for $50 Jump to details $50 at Best Buy Razer DeathAdder Elite gaming mouse An update to the iconic Deathadder Jump to details $40 at Walmart Fitbit Aria Air smart scale The smart scale that works with your Fitbit Jump to details $50 at Walmart Show more (13 items) Did you find a gift card under the tree or by the menorah this year? That's basically free money, so now you just need to decide what to get. Have no fear: We've rounded up some awesome ideas, all of them priced at $50 or less. Be sure to hit the comments and let us know what you decided to gift yourself! Best under $50 at Amazon An Amazon gift card is either the easiest thing to use or the hardest -- because there are so many options. These are some of our favorites. EarFun Free True wireless on a budget Sarah Tew/CNET Looking for budget-priced true-wireless earbuds? What's most impressive about the EarFun Free are the features: Bluetooth 5.0 with both USB-C and wireless charging. They're also durable and fully waterproof (IPX7), according to the specs list. Do they sound perfect? Maybe not quite, but they sound pretty good. They don't have the clarity of higher-end true wireless ear pods that cost $150 or more, but they do have plump bass and enough detail to avoid sounding dull. They're also pretty solid for making calls. Read our EarFun Free earbuds first take. $50 at Amazon Once Upon in Hollywood 4K Ultra HD Blu-ray 4K movie for that new 4K TV Amazon If you're looking to test out a new 4K TV (or even an old one), the Once Upon in Hollywood 4K Ultra HD Blu-ray is one of the best looking -- and sounding -- discs of 2019. Tarantino's ode to the glory days of Hollywood during a turbulent time in its history (and the country's) is also highly rewatchable, particularly for the performances of Brad Pitt and Leonardo DiCaprio. The standard Blu-ray is $5 less and the digital 4K version is $15 at various streaming services, including iTunes and Vudu (it's a Movies Anywhere title). $28 at Amazon Sphero Mini Soccer Affordable STEM toy David Carnoy/CNET The Sphero Mini, the app-enabled programmable robot ball, now comes in a version that looks like a soccer ball and even comes with mini cones. You can drive the Sphero yourself or program it to perform various maneuvers using easy coding commands in the app. Read our Sphero Mini first take. $37 at Amazon Coast HP7 LED Flashlight The gift of light Sarah Tew/CNET There are a lot of flashlights you can buy for under $50, but the Coast HP7 is one of the better ones we've tried. Relatively compact and rated at 530 lumens, it's bright for its size and has an easy slide focus that lets you shape the beam from flood to spot, and then lock the beam into whatever shape you choose. The list price of the gadget is $60, but you can get it for less than $40. It's powered by four AAA batteries (included). $35 at Amazon Chemex 6-Cup Classic Coffeemaker A timeless brewing device Amazon Want something to really talk about at the coffee table? CNET editor Sharon Profis says this is "a go-to gift from me for coffee lovers." She adds that it's fun to give with half a pound of your favorite beans. This easy to clean item is a great gift idea for someone -- including yourself -- who likes a good cup of pour-over. $41 at Amazon Logitech MX Anywhere 2S Premium mobile mouse Sarah Tew/CNET We all spend so much time with a computer that everyone appreciates a good wireless mouse. This premium mobile model is about as comfortable as they get for a mini mouse, and it doesn't break the bank. Thanks to Logitech Darkﬁeld Laser technology, it works on just about any surface, everything from a glass table to the Formica-style finish of my work desk. And it has an integrated rechargeable battery that's supposed to last up to 60 days on a single battery charge. It may not be the perfect video game mouse, but you can still play a game with it. Though its list price is $80, you can pick up the "meteorite" version for $50. $50 at Amazon Gunnar Optiks blue-light blocking glasses Computer eyestrain reliever Sarah Tew/CNET For several years Gunnar Optiks has been making "computer glasses" designed to block blue light and help alleviate the eyestrain you get from staring at a display or a game for long periods. The glasses come in a variety of styles and a few different tints. The core models have an amber lens, anti-reflective coatings and slight magnification. The Vertex (pictured here in both amber and clear tints) and Riot styles are priced at less than $50. You can add prescription lenses through the Gunnar website, but those RX packages cost more. See at Amazon Read more: Do blue light blocking glasses actually work? RAVPower 61W Dual-Port Charger Best do-it-all USB charger Sarah Tew/CNET With both a USB-C PD port and a good old-fashioned USB-A port, the RAVPower 61W Dual-Port Charger is great for charging any device from a phone to wireless headphones to a full-on laptop and most everything in between, including the Nintendo Switch, Amazon Kindle and Apple iPad. It's also a nice value at around $30 when you apply the coupon on the product page. $30 at Amazon Xcentz Portable Charger 10,000 mAh Compact high-capacity portable battery Sarah Tew/CNET It's hard to get more practical than a portable battery pack, especially a model that uses one of the smallest and lightest 10,000-mAh batteries, with 18-watt power delivery and QuickCharge 3.0 for devices that support it. This charger has both a USC-C port along with a USB-A port and can be used with both Android and Apple phones, though no cables are included. Certain colors cost as little as $20. See at Amazon TaoTronics True Wireless Earbuds Affordable true wireless Sarah Tew/CNET If you aren't ready to splurge on a pair of Apple AirPods (or otherwise fairly pricey totally wireless earphones), there are some easy to afford options out there, including the TaoTronics True Wireless earbuds, which are pretty decent. They may not deliver perfect sound (the AirPods don't deliver perfect sound either), but most people will find it perfectly acceptable. They have Bluetooth 5.0 and 5 hours of battery life at moderate volume levels. They're also sweatproof, so you can use them at the gym. Right now, you can save a few extra dollars and get them for about $35 when you apply the coupon on the product page. Read our TaoTronics True Wireless Earbuds review. $35 at Amazon Logitech K380 keyboard Compact keyboard Sarah Tew/CNET Logitech's K380 has been around for a while, but it's still a great keyboard for the money -- perfect for computers, tablets and phones. You can find it for less than $30 online. Read our Logitech K380 keyboard review. $30 at Amazon Read more: Best keyboards for 2019 Tribit XSound Go Budget Bluetooth speaker that sounds good Sarah Tew/CNET Another candidate for best value wireless speaker, the Tribit XSound Go is one of the best ones for the money -- about $33 at Amazon, depending on which color you choose. And if you're willing to spend a little more, for around $55 you can pick up the larger MaxSound Plus, which has richer sound with more bass. Read our Tribit XSound Go review. $33 at Amazon Eufy Smart Scale P1 Healthy gift Sarah Tew/CNET Time to kick-start your New Year's resolution. At around $45 (minus $8 via an on-page coupon), the Eufy P1 is one of the least expensive smart scales. Beyond weight you can track body fat, BMI, bone mass, muscle mass and more for multiple users. You track everything using the EufyLife app, but the scale also ties into Apple Health, Google Fit and the Fitbit App. It's available in two colors. $45 at Amazon JBL Clip 3 A waterproof wireless speaker that's great for home or travel David Carnoy/CNET It usually sells for $60 to $70, but certain colors of the JBL Clip 3 is currently hovering around $40 at Amazon. Despite its small size, this little wireless speaker is great for music or podcasts. It's waterproof, it travels well, it recharges via USB and the built-in carabiner lets you clip it anywhere. It's also available in at least a dozen stylish colors, which helps make it a great gift idea. Read our JBL Clip 3 review. $70 at Walmart $70 at Best Buy $70 at HSN Best holiday gifts for under $50 18 Photos Best under $50 at Best Buy Whether you're heading to an a Best Buy retail store or shopping online, put these items on your short-list. UE Wonderboom Portable Bluetooth speaker with punch Sarah Tew/CNET Best Buy is currently running a deal on the original UE Wonderboom for $40. That's about the lowest we've seen for this waterproof portable Bluetooth speaker that puts out good sound for its compact size. The new Wonderboom 2 has some small improvements and is on sale for $60. Read CNET review. $40 at Best Buy JLabs JBuds Air True wireless earbuds for $50 David Carnoy/CNET Guys and gals who love music love these earbuds. JLabs makes a lot of true wireless earphones. These are its least expensive and, frankly, the only ones I'd buy. This is an ideal -- and affordable -- gift for someone who needs something small and unobtrusive for watching videos and listening to music on all their devices, many of which no longer have a headphone jack. $50 at Best Buy Best under $50 at Walmart There are a slew of things you can find at Walmart, many for well under $50. We rounded up some of our favorites here. Razer DeathAdder Elite gaming mouse An update to the iconic Deathadder The Razer DeathAdder Elite is perfect for anyone playing a game that requires the most accurate mouse movement. It includes a 16,000 DPI sensor and has a 99.4% resolution accuracy. It's also been tested to 50 million clicks, so it's likely to outlast your fingers. Read our preview of the Razer Deathadder Elite. $40 at Walmart Fitbit Aria Air smart scale The smart scale that works with your Fitbit For just $50, you can lay claim to a smart scale that pairs with your phone and Fitbit, and shows information like weight, BMI and body fat for up to four different family members. Read our Fitbit Aria review. $50 at Walmart CNET editors' 2019 holiday picks 19 Photos Now playing: Watch this: Best gifts under $50 for the holidays 2:35 Originally published last month and updated with new information. Comments The Cheapskate Mobile Accessories Headphones Wireless & Bluetooth Speakers Smart Speakers & Displays Notification on Notification off Deals Close Discuss: Got a holiday gift card? Best bets under $50 at Amazon, Best Buy and Walmart Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.