https://www.cnet.com/news/3g-iphones-at-an-at-t-store-fuggedaboutit/
3G iPhones at an AT&T store? Fuggedaboutit - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In 3G iPhones at an AT&T store? Fuggedaboutit We called 50 AT&T stores. None of them had the new phone. Apple stores fared better, but not great. Erica Ogg July 17, 2008 10:29 AM PDT "Welcome to the new AT&T, we're currently out of iPhones, how can I help you?" That's how two AT&T stores--one in Los Angeles, another in Denver--answered their phones Tuesday. But those stores are hardly alone in their lack of 3G iPhones. A CNET News survey on Tuesday and Wednesday showed that during their first week on sale, Apple's latest iPhones are playing extremely hard to get. In total, we contacted 50 AT&T stores in 21 cities across 11 states, and not one had any of the three models of the Apple iPhone 3G. And none had good news about when one might be able to get the device. When asked if someone could walk in and buy a phone any time this week, an employee of an Austin, Texas, area store put it this way: "No way, no how, no store." That's because of the huge back-order of phones. An AT&T representative confirmed that most of the company's stores ran out of iPhones on Friday, the first day the devices were for sale. Since AT&T doesn't have any in stock, its individual stores are taking "direct fulfillment" orders, which means customers can put in an order, pay for a phone, and will be contacted when it arrives. Most of the 50 stores said that process is running between 10 and 21 days before the phones will arrive. "We are shipping tens of thousands of iPhone 3Gs each day to accommodate demand," said AT&T spokeswoman Jenny Parker. "As we're able to start re-stocking our stores, we will do so as fast as we can." From what we can tell, the shipments vary. Though each store said it gets a shipment of phones every day, some said they hadn't received any containing iPhones since launch day and didn't expect any until next week. When they do arrive, "sometimes there are 10 iPhones, sometimes 100," reported a Seattle-area AT&T employee who answered the phone. Of course, this evidence is entirely anecdotal, but similar stories have been showing up on the Web this week. Suffice it to say, it's fairly improbable anyone will be able to waltz in off the street and buy an iPhone 3G from AT&T until at least the end of August. Though you could get lucky if someone happens to return a phone the same day you go in. Lines like this, taken on iPhone launch day, remain at Apple stores, while AT&T outlets across the U.S. are sold out. Tom Krazit/CNET News Apple stores are faring moderately better. There are more than 1,000 AT&T stores carrying iPhones, and 188 Apple stores in the U.S. Of those Apple outlets surveyed in the same cities of the AT&T stores that had no phones in stock, seven Apple stores reported having the iPhone in stock and three said they just ran out Wednesday morning. Those that still had iPhones to sell reported lines with waits of one-and-a-half to three-and-a-half hours. Still, the odds are heavily in favor of Apple being able to supply iPhones to their customers on the spot. So if you really, truly must have an iPhone as soon as possible, it seems pointless to bother with AT&T. CNET News' Holly Jackson contributed to this report. Comments Crave Mobile Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: 3G iPhones at an AT&T store? Fuggedaboutit Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.