https://www.cnet.com/news/o2-sold-out-of-iphones-sign-of-3g-iphones-arrival/
O2 sold out of iPhones: Sign of 3G iPhone's arrival? - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In O2 sold out of iPhones: Sign of 3G iPhone's arrival? Want a 3G iPhone? You might not have to wait much longer. O2 has apparently run out of iPhones, which could mean it's getting ready for a new model Andrew Lim May 8, 2008 9:09 AM PDT Shazam -- and the iPhone is gone. Or at least it has from O2's Web site. Go have a look if you don't believe us, behold the special page that declares "8GB & 16GB iPhone no longer available". So what does it all mean? One explanation is that O2 has run out of iPhones after it ran the £169 deal for the 8GB model, but that wouldn't explain a wipe-out of the 16GB iPhone too. Could O2 be clearing out stock, prepping itself for a better, 3G-tastic version? Typically of the cat and mouse game we play with Apple, we have no idea what's going on, but a 3G iPhone was always on the roadmap, so an imminent release isn't out of the question. With several manufacturers muscling in on the touchscreen action, including HTC with its new Touch Diamond, it makes sense for Apple to fight back now. But Apple has never been one to follow the crowd, so who knows what move it'll make next? One thing for sure is that when the 3G iPhone comes out it will be more successful than its predecessor. Our sense is that many people in the UK loved the iPhone but were put off by the lack of 3G, so when it does come out there could be an epic stampede. -Andrew Lim Update: The O2 Web site is now offering the 16GB model but the 8GB is still out of stock. Looks like it might not be the 3G iPhone after all. Comments Phones Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: O2 sold out of iPhones: Sign of 3G iPhone's arrival? Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.