https://www.cnet.com/news/apple-apps-using-address-data-are-in-violation-fix-to-come/
Apple: Apps using address data are in violation, fix to come - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Apple: Apps using address data are in violation, fix to come Company says apps collecting user contact lists without permission go against its guidelines. Apple is working on a software fix but doesn't specify a release date. Josh Lowensohn February 15, 2012 11:02 AM PST Apple says that iOS applications that collect user contact data are in violation of the company's guidelines, and that a future software fix will prohibit this behavior. Apple "Apps that collect or transmit a user's contact data without their prior permission are in violation of our guidelines," Apple spokesman Tom Neumayr said. "We're working to make this even better for our customers, and as we have done with location services, any app wishing to access contact data will require explicit user approval in a future software release." Controversy erupted earlier this month, when Path--a popular iOS and Android application--was found to be collecting user contact information without permission. Path issued an apology on the issue, saying that it was using that data to alert users to when their friends joined the social network. The company then introduced an updated version that required users to opt-in to the feature. Yesterday a handful of reports came out profiling other apps that shared this behavior, including Foursquare and Twitter. The issue was big enough to catch the eye of U.S. lawmakers too. A U.S. House subcommittee sent a letter to Apple this week, asking why it doesn't force app developers to ask users for permission before downloading contacts. "This incident raises questions about whether Apple's iOS app developer policies and practices may fall short when it comes to protecting the information of iPhone users and their contacts," committee member Rep. Henry A. Waxman (D-Calif.) wrote in a letter sent to Apple CEO Tim Cook that was made public today. Apple did not offer a specific date on when that software update would arrive. The company is currently beta-testing iOS 5.1 with developers, which is expected to make its way to consumers soon. A history of software fixes This is the latest privacy issue to arise from Apple's mobile operating system that has led to a patch. Last year it was the logging of user location data, which was found to be stored unencrypted. Researchers took the data, which covered up to a year's worth of location entries, and suggested that it could be used to track where users were going, including where they lived. Apple stayed mum on the subject for a week, later addressing it as a "bug" and saying that the file was used to speed up how fast it could identify people's whereabouts inside applications, as well as fuel a crowd-sourced location database. A software update a few weeks later cut the database down to seven days, as well as keeping the file from being stored on local machines, however that didn't stop the incident from being referred to as "locationgate." Related stories ZDNet: Twitter uploads contact list data without consent; retains for 18 months Lessons unlearned: From Intel to Path Path and the disclosure dilemma Pinterest making money by adding tracking code to certain user pins Prior to that, Apple was targeted for providing developers with unique identification numbers for users. These identifiers, known as UDIDs, were tied to the device and could not be changed, akin to something like a vehicle identification number on a car. An in-depth report from The Wall Street Journal found that developers were sharing UDIDs with third-party ad networks, allowing them to track user activity between applications in a way that Apple itself did not offer. Apple later addressed this by phasing out UDIDs as part of iOS 5, though that wasn't enough to stop some individuals from suing Apple and a handful of developers for the practice in separate lawsuits. CNET News senior staff writer Elinor Mills contributed to this report. Comments Tech Industry Tim Cook Twitter Apple Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Apple: Apps using address data are in violation, fix to come Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.