https://www.cnet.com/news/iphone-shortage-hits-nyc/
iPhone shortage hits NYC - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In iPhone shortage hits NYC Long lines have been forming outside Apple's flagship store on Fifth Avenue in New York City as anxious Apple shoppers try to get their hands on an iPhone. Marguerite Reardon May 23, 2008 1:56 PM PDT Update: As of 4 p.m. EDT there was no line outside the Apple store on Fifth Avenue here. Then again, there weren't any iPhones left to buy either. NEW YORK--Early on Thursday, Engadget reported that a 60-person line had formed outside the store. But by the afternoon, the line had dissipated and the store was buzzing with its usual crowd of shoppers. (Having lived in New York City for over 10 years it never ceases to amaze me how many people don't seem to have a job and shop all day.) Outside Apple's Fifth Avenue store. Marguerite Reardon/CNET Networks A store greeter confirmed a line had started forming outside the store around 2 a.m. Thursday. Why you might ask? After all, the flagship store on Fifth Avenue, which sits under a massive glass cube, is open 24 hours a day. Apparently, people were waiting for a shipment of iPhones. And once the phones were gone, so was the line. Nearly a year after the phone hit the market, Apple is struggling to keep them in stock. For weeks, news outlets have reported that some Apple retail stores have experienced iPhone shortages. An Apple spokeswoman confirmed that the online store in the U.S. and the U.K. has been sold out of iPhones for two weeks so far. But customers in France, Germany, Ireland, and Austria may still be able to get them online. The Apple employees I spoke to at the store on Fifth Avenue said they've noticed a sharp increase in demand for iPhones in the past few months. And lines have been forming outside the Fifth Avenue store almost every time the store gets a shipment of new iPhones. A potential iPhone customer plays around with the iPhone at the Apple store on Fifth Avenue. Marguerite Reardon/CNET Networks Of course, this supposed shortage comes just as rumors ricochet through the blogosphere that the company will be introducing a new 3G version of the iPhone June 9 at Apple's World Developers Conference. So it seems a bit strange to me that people would actually stand in line overnight for the old version, which operates on a painfully slow data network, when the much faster 3G version is going to be in stores within a month. But perhaps, the impending launch of the 3G iPhone is causing the shortage. Apple may be reducing manufacturing volumes of the older version of the phone in anticipation of the new version. This is all speculation at this point. Apple is keeping mum about any rumors of the 3G iPhone. And the only thing the company has said about the shortage is that, "customer response continues to be off the charts." Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: iPhone shortage hits NYC Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.