https://www.cnet.com/news/dish-and-t-mobile-said-to-be-in-early-stage-merger-talks/
Dish and T-Mobile said to be in early-stage merger talks - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Dish and T-Mobile said to be in early-stage merger talks The two companies have hammered out leadership details of the combined company but not financial particulars, sources tell the Wall Street Journal. Steven Musil June 3, 2015 8:18 PM PDT T-Mobile CEO John Legere would serve as CEO of the combined company, according to the Wall Street Journal. Sarah Tew/CNET After years of talk that Dish Network and T-Mobile might merge, a tie-up between the two might be near. The satellite TV provider is in early-stage talks to merge with the wireless provider, according to a report Wednesday by the Wall Street Journal, the latest in a wave of consolidation involving communications companies. The combined company would install Dish CEO Charlie Ergen as its chairman, while T-Mobile CEO John Legere would be appointed the combined company's chief executive, people described as familiar with the deal told the Journal. A deal between the No. 2 satellite TV provider and No. 4 wireless provider would combine T-Mobile's 39 million customers with Dish's 13.8 million satellite TV customers and 591,000 Internet subscribers. However, key details of the agreement remain to be hammered out, including purchase price and the mix of cash and stock that would finance the deal, the Journal said, adding that talks could still dissolve without reaching an agreement. If a deal between the two is completed, it would be the latest mega-merger of television and communications giants. T-Mobile rival AT&T is in the process of acquiring Dish rival DirecTV in a deal worth $48.5 billion, while Charter Communications has announced $66 billion in deals to merge with Time Warner Cable and Bright House Networks. This isn't the first time Dish has shown interest in the wireless industry; in 2013, Dish made a bid to acquire Sprint but lost to Softbank, which ended up buying the company for $21.6 billion. That interest was reciprocated by Legere in 2013 when he said he would be open to a potential tie-up with Dish. Legere said he was interested in some of the capabilities and spectrum that T-Mobile would offer. "When I look at the medium to long term, I'm intrigued by Dish's vision," Legere told CNET at the time. Talk of a merger between the two companies resurfaced in January after Dish walked away as the second-highest bidder in the Federal Communications Commission's most recent auction of spectrum, spending $13.3 billion on the radio frequencies used to transmit wireless data. Dish has been acquiring wireless spectrum in other deals and is thought to be poised to build a wireless network of its own that could rival those of the major cellular operators. In addition to acquisitions, some have speculated Dish may partner with existing wireless operators in a network-sharing arrangement. Legere said in February that he isn't sure what Dish's plan is, but whatever the company decides to do, whether it's an acquisition or a partnership, that his company is game. "We like what they're doing," Legere said in an interview. "It makes sense to have a discussion." Dish and T-Mobile representatives declined to comment on the Journal's report. Comments Dish Network T-Mobile Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Dish and T-Mobile said to be in early-stage merger talks Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.