https://www.cnet.com/news/so-why-did-mighty-microsoft-turn-so-wimpy/
So why did mighty Microsoft turn so wimpy? - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In So why did mighty Microsoft turn so wimpy? The e-mail revelations coming to light paint a picture of a company at odds with its fearsome reputation. How do you explain the striking contrast between reality and perception? Charles Cooper February 29, 2008 8:00 AM PST Time was when Microsoft inspired dread in the tech industry. With a few exceptions, most rivals and partners did their best not to get on Bill Gates' bad side. So why did Microsoft agree to a two-tiered Vista upgrade program that its managers knew was a mistake? The trove of e-mails released in connection with a pending class action lawsuit paint a Microsoft strangely unwilling to stand up to pushy Wintel partner Intel. Check out these juicy passages highlighted by Todd Bishop at The Seattle Post-Intelligencer: "We are caving to Intel," wrote Microsoft's Mike Ybarra in a February 2006 e-mail to Jim Allchin, Microsoft's Windows chief at the time. "We are allowing Intel to drive our consumer experience. (Computer makers) support our goals here and they've made graphics investments to drive the (user experience) with consumers. I don't understand why we would cave on this when the potential to drive the full (user experience) is right in front of us." Or this one from John Kalkman to Scott Di Valerio, who ran Microsoft's relations with PC makers at the time: "In the end, we lowered the requirement to help Intel make their quarterly earnings so they could continue to sell motherboards with the 915 graphics embedded. This in turn did two things: 1. Decreased focus of OEMs planning and shipping higher end graphics for Vista-ready programs and 2. Reduced the focus by IHV's to ready great WHQL (Windows Hardware Quality Labs) qualified graphics drivers. We can see this today with Intel's inability to ship a compelling full featured 945 graphics driver for Windows Vista." The love-hate MS-Intel relationship goes back years. But back before getting gobsmacked by Google and the Web 2.0 crowd, Microsoft was famous for throwing its weight around--even with Intel. We got a peek at some of the back-and-forth between those two during the Justice Department's antitrust lawsuit in the late 1990s. Gates pressured Andy Grove to dump the development of its NSP software. He also held a one-on-one where he told his Intel counterpart that Microsoft had a big problem with Intel funding the development and distribution of free platform-level software. Here's an excerpt from the court's finding of fact: "In fact, Gates said, Intel could not count on Microsoft to support Intel's next generation of microprocessors as long as Intel was developing platform-level software that competed with Windows. Intel's senior executives knew full well that Intel would have difficultly selling PC microprocessors if Microsoft stopped cooperating in making them compatible with Windows and if Microsoft stated to OEMs that it did not support Intel's chips. Faced with Gates' threat, Intel agreed to stop developing platform-level interfaces that might draw support away from interfaces exposed by Windows." That was then and this is now. In the post-antitrust case era, Microsoft has new and equally pressing worries. On one hand, it has Neelie Kroes and the European Union to please. On the other, it's desperate for all the allies it can muster. Would Microsoft have risked alienating Intel had Steve Ballmer picked up the phone to Paul Otellini and told him to back off? You can only wonder. In the meantime, I suspect Intel is likely to get an earful from its OEM customers as more e-mail revelations surface detailing backroom pressure on Microsoft over its "Vista Capable" program. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: So why did mighty Microsoft turn so wimpy? Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.