https://www.cnet.com/news/t-mobile-continues-to-gobble-up-wireless-customers/
T-Mobile continues to gobble up wireless customers - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In T-Mobile continues to gobble up wireless customers CEO John Legere, at CES to promote the carrier's unlimited-only data plans, touts another strong quarter of subscriber growth. Marguerite Reardon January 5, 2017 2:19 PM PST T-Mobile CEO John Legere says the carrier has added more than 8 million new customers for the year. CNET Four years into its turnaround, T-Mobile is celebrating another big year in customer gains. CEO John Legere on Thursday bragged about the wireless carrier's success at adding new customers and offered a glimpse at subscriber growth results for the fourth quarter and all of 2016. The company held a press conference at CES 2017 in Las Vegas to announce its unlimited-only data plans. The bottom line? T-Mobile continues to win new wireless phone customers, most likely at the expense of its competitors. For the third year in a row, the company has added more than 8 million total new customers, with more than 2 million customers in the fourth quarter. Specifically, he noted that T-Mobile added 2.1 million customers in the fourth quarter of 2016. This consisted of 933,000 valuable postpaid customers, or customers who pay their bills at the end of the month. And the company added 541,000 prepaid customers, or customers who pay for service at the beginning of each month. Most of those customers have service under T-Mobile's prepaid brand, MetroPCS. For the full year, this means T-Mobile has added more than 8.2 million new customers. About 3.3 million of them are postpaid phone customers and 2.5 million are prepaid subscribers. The numbers are impressive, Legere said, because T-Mobile's larger competitors AT&T and Verizon haven't grown their phone customer base at all. In fact, he said that T-Mobile has been responsible for more than 100 percent of the industry's growth in new phone subscribers over the past four years. And he predicted T-Mobile will continue to add new phone customers, while these larger competitors focus on other aspects of their business. Indeed, the trends in wireless subscriber growth aren't looking good for AT&T and Verizon. In the third quarter AT&T lost 268,000 postpaid phone customers. Verizon said it lost 36,000 such customers in the third quarter. Sprint, which is ranked fourth in the wireless market in terms of total subscribers, added 347,000 of these valuable phone subscribers in the third quarter. Both AT&T and Verizon have pursued media companies as they grapple with slowing growth in wireless. While Verizon has acquired AOL and has announced plans to buy Yahoo, AT&T has made bigger bets on DirecTV and now Time Warner. All of this comes five years after AT&T abandoned its $39 billion plan to buy T-Mobile, and more than four years after Legere took over as CEO and he began his "Un-carrier" marketing campaign. Or, as he calls it, his crusade to change the wireless industry. "Four years ago we launched the Un-carrier and promised to change the wireless industry for good," he said in a statement announcing the preliminary results. "Consumers are responding." Using wireless spectrum and cash from AT&T as part of the breakup of their failed merger, Legere and his team have taken T-Mobile from a struggling wireless company that ranked fourth among the major carriers and was losing customers every quarter to the fastest-growing network in the country. It now ranks third in overall subscribers. Much of this is due to improvements in the network. Legere's team has improved T-Mobile's footprint by extending coverage into suburban markets and building a 4G LTE network that provides network performance to rival its bigger competitors. As a result, Legere says the company has won new customers and created a loyal base. Now, he says his larger rivals are on the ropes, and T-Mobile is poised to continue its attack. "We are hunting the bastards down." Comments Mobile AT&T Sprint T-Mobile Verizon Notification on Notification off T-mobile usa Close Discuss: T-Mobile continues to gobble up wireless customers Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.