https://www.cnet.com/news/dell-to-lay-off-10-percent-of-workforce/
Dell to lay off 10 percent of workforce - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Dell to lay off 10 percent of workforce Along with preliminary earnings release, the company announces it will lay off 10 percent of workers to trim costs. Erica Ogg June 1, 2007 2:53 AM PDT Dell released preliminary earnings Thursday showing positive signs in its servers unit, but announced it would lay off 10 percent of its workforce over the coming year. Net income for the quarter ended May 4 totaled $759 million, or 34 cents per share, a slight dip from the same quarter last year, which came in at $762 million and 33 cents per share. The numbers still surpassed Wall Street's expectations of 26 cents per share. Gross margins grew to $2.8 billion, up from $2.4 billion a year ago, and operating income was down slightly to $947 million from $949 million, which Dell attributed to higher average selling prices and a better mix of products and services. Revenue for the first quarter of Dell's fiscal year was $14.6 billion. With a current worldwide workforce of 88,000, approximately 8,800 employees will be let go over the next year as Dell tries to trim costs. The staff reductions will "vary across regions, segments and functions," according to Dell spokesman David Frank. A bright spot was Dell's server segment, which topped all of the company's businesses with 19 percent growth from a year ago. Notebook revenues were up 7 percent and desktops declined 6 percent. Dell has been attempting to turn itself around in the last year after losing its lead as the world's largest PC maker to Hewlett-Packard in 2006. It's seen heavy turnover in leadership, including the return of founder Michael Dell as chief executive, replacing Kevin Rollins. The company's traditional direct sales model will also be tweaked slightly to compete better with HP and others. Last week, the PC maker announced that it will sell two of its desktop models at Wal-Mart. Dell is also in the middle of an SEC investigation into its accounting practices. In its earnings announcement, Dell said it has incurred $46 million in costs related to the federal probe. The investigation is ongoing, preventing the company from filing anything more than preliminary reports for the previous three fiscal quarters. For the same reason, Dell has with analysts and the media. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Dell to lay off 10 percent of workforce Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.