https://www.cnet.com/news/hands-on-with-the-macbook-air/
Hands-on with the MacBook Air - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Hands-on with the MacBook Air Firsthand account of Apple's latest laptop. Michelle Thatcher January 15, 2008 4:33 PM PST MacBook Air: I've eaten thicker slices of pizza. CNET Networks Say what you will about Steve Jobs, but when he pulled Apple's latest laptop out of a standard inter-office envelope I stood in awe--of both his showmanship and of the laptop's remarkably slim design. Though the MacBook Air is not quite the thinnest laptop ever, it is among the thinnest we've seen (the Fujistu LifeBook Q2010 and Toshiba Portege R500 both measure 0.8 inch thick, but neither tapers to 0.16 inch like the Air). These data can't really convey the MacBook Air's wow factor--thus the envelope trick. Yet even with that visual I wasn't quite prepared for how very slender this laptop would be. When I picked it up, my mind took a few seconds to get past the incongruity of such a broad, bright 13.3-inch display in a package the weight and thickness of a Dr. Seuss hardcover. The multitouch trackpad uses gestures similar to the iPhone. CNET Networks Once I put it down and started working, I was extremely pleased with the new multitouch trackpad, which incorporates a range of gesture controls that will be familiar to iPhone users. It's a smart move on Apple's part; not only are the gestures easy to learn, but they're difficult to forget, making it far more likely that users will stick with Apple products once they've become used to the interface. Writers and students will be pleased as well with the MacBook Air's keyboard, which is full size and similar to that of the standard MacBook. (It actually feels the same as the keyboard found on regular MacBooks, but I couldn't quite be sure without a direct side-by-side comparison.) In terms of interaction, the MacBook Air is probably the first 3-pound notebook that hasn't asked users to make some kind of compromise. That's not to say users won't have to compromise at all. Everyone around me seems to have a different take on the MacBook Air's missing features. For example, I don't care about the optical drive but bemoan the lack of Ethernet and cellular connections, while my video team is shocked that the laptop lacks FireWire and my business-minded friends can't believe there's no expansion slot. But in my mind the MacBook Air is hard to beat if you're primarily looking for an eye-catching, extremely portable laptop that's (relatively) competitively priced. You can get the full hands-on experience by watching my First Look video of the MacBook Air at CNET TV. Comments Crave Laptops Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Hands-on with the MacBook Air Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.