https://www.cnet.com/news/sprint-raises-stakes-in-the-99-99-unlimited-battle/
Sprint raises stakes in the $99.99 unlimited battle - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Sprint raises stakes in the $99.99 unlimited battle Sprint Nextel said on Thursday that it will include messaging, mobile Internet access, and some premium services as part of its new unlimited bundle costing $99.99. Marguerite Reardon February 28, 2008 9:05 AM PST Sprint Nextel upped the ante in the $99.99 all-you-can-eat rate plan battle Thursday by introducing a service that includes unlimited voice as well as unlimited data and slew of premium services. Called "Simply Everything," the plan will give customers unlimited voice as well as unlimited data, text, e-mail, Web-surfing, Sprint TV, Sprint Music, GPS Navigation, and push-to-talk service for $99.99 a month. The company made the announcement during its fourth-quarter earnings call, in which the company also announced heavy financial and customer losses. The new pricing plan is available to existing and new customers on both Sprint's CDMA network as well as its Nextel iDEN network starting on Friday. Current customers will not have to renew or extend their contract to switch to the service. Sprint is also offering discounts for families subscribing to the high-end rate plan. Families will get a discount of $5 per month on every "Simply Everything" service that is added to the same bill for up to five additional lines. This means that two lines would cost $194.98 (or $99.99 plus $94.99). A third line would cost an additional $89.99. Sprint is facing stiff competition. Last week, Verizon Wireless was the first to announce a $99.99 unlimited voice plan followed by AT&T and T-Mobile. Until Sprint's plan was announced, T-Mobile seemed to offer the most comprehensive offering--a $99.99 plan that includes voice, unlimited text messaging and picture messaging. AT&T's plan is only for unlimited voice calls. AT&T customers can get additional messaging plans starting at $5 more a month with an unlimited messaging plan costing an additional $35 a month on standard phones. Verizon's $99.99 plan includes unlimited voice and Internet access, and Web-based email. Customers can tack on additional services for a fee. For example, for $119.99-per-month, Verizon Wireless customers can get unlimited messaging. And for $139.99-per-month, they can get VCast video, VZ Navigator, and Mobile E-mail functions. Clearly Sprint's offering offers customers the most bang for the buck. But some analysts have warned that if Sprint significantly undercut or added more services to the bundle for the same price that they could start a price war in wireless. Dan Hesse, the company's CEO who took over the top spot at Sprint just before the end of 2007, said the new rate plan is not about matching competitors on price. Instead, he said, it's about making it simpler for customers to buy and use data services. And he hopes it will help differentiate Sprint from its competitors. "The new battleground will be around data," he said during the earnings call on Thursday. "We want to put a flag in the ground that we are about data." He also went on to say that the company has a long road ahead of it as it tries to put its failing business back on track. " I want to emphasize that this is not a silver bullet," he said. "This ($99.99 pricing offer) is one of many actions we will take to turn things around for the company." Indeed, Sprint has been suffering from massive customer defections as dissatisfied customers flee due to poor network performance and unhappiness with customer service. In the fourth quarter of 2007, Sprint lost 683,000 customers. And it expects more losses in 2008. It forecast that it would lose an additional 1.2 million customers who pay monthly bills in the first quarter of 2008. And the losses will continue in the second quarter, Hesse said. "The major objective for us is to reduce churn by improving the customer experience across all touch points," he said. "That is the No. 1, 2, and 3 things we need to focus on." Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Sprint raises stakes in the $99.99 unlimited battle Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.