https://www.cnet.com/news/president-trump-just-saved-embattled-chinese-phone-maker-zte/
President Trump just saved embattled Chinese phone maker ZTE - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In President Trump just saved embattled Chinese phone maker ZTE In a tweet, Trump urges the Commerce Department to give ZTE "a way to get back into business, fast." Roger Cheng May 14, 2018 1:51 PM PDT President Trump has intervened in the ZTE drama. Mandel Ngan / AFP/Getty Images Count President Donald Trump as one of Chinese phone maker ZTE's new allies. ZTE, the fourth-largest smartphone maker in the US, has been dealing with a US Commerce Department denial order that prevents US businesses from selling hardware or services to the company -- a seven-year ban that forced ZTE to shut down its "major operating activities." It looks, though, like ZTE may get a reprieve. Trump tweeted on Sunday that he's working with Chinese President Xi Jinping to "find a way to get back into business, fast." President Xi of China, and I, are working together to give massive Chinese phone company, ZTE, a way to get back into business, fast. Too many jobs in China lost. Commerce Department has been instructed to get it done! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 13, 2018 This would mark a stark reversal of the harsh punishment the Commerce Department handed to ZTE for its failure to properly reprimand employees involved in selling US-origin equipment to Iran. ZTE had been working to get the denial order overturned and had pegged its hopes on broader bilateral trade talks between the US and China. For Trump, who has made protecting American jobs a marquee element of his presidency, tweeting his concern that there were too many Chinese jobs lost from the penalty is a surprise. But ZTE has long made the argument that it's invested a significant amount into the US, and the company spent $2.34 billion buying from American businesses just last year, according to a person familiar with the company. "This is entirely unprecedented," said Doug Jacobson, an export controls and sanctions attorney for Jacobson Burton Kelley who represents suppliers that do business with ZTE. On Monday, Trump tweeted a defense of his perspective on ZTE, noting that it buys parts from US businesses. The Commerce Department pointed to Commerce Secretary Wilber Ross's remarks at a National Press Club luncheon on Monday, in which he hopes "that we can make a fair deal." "But if that does not happen, a trade tit-for-tat will not be economically life threatening to the United States," Ross said. ZTE declined to comment. CNET Daily News Get today's top news and reviews collected for you. It's not the first time Trump has intervened when it comes to dealings with foreign companies. In March, the president squashed a deal for Broadcom, headquartered in Singapore, to buy San Diego-based Qualcomm because of concerns it would hurt US leadership in 5G technology. ZTE had to shut its business down because the Commerce Department ban prevents it from using critical parts of the Android operating system, including access to the Google Play store and newer versions of Android and security patches. In addition, it was prevented from using carrier tools to offer software updates and security patches to existing phones. The company also couldn't get access to critical components for networking equipment, which it sells to a wide variety of countries, including India, Austria and Italy. Originally published May 13 at 8:55 a.m. PT. Update at 3:47 p.m. PT: Added background information. Update on May 14 at 1:51 p.m. PT: To include comment from the secretary of the Commerce Department. Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech." Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility. Comments Phones ZTE Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: President Trump just saved embattled Chinese phone maker ZTE Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.