https://www.cnet.com/news/rumor-gaggle-of-treos-on-the-way/
Rumor: Gaggle of Treos on the way - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Rumor: Gaggle of Treos on the way Tom Krazit February 2, 2006 5:02 PM PST Thinking about a new Treo? Looks like you could soon have your choice of several different models, from high-end Windows and Palm OS models to entry-level smart phones. Treo fan sites and analysts this week are buzzing about possible devices such as one code-named Hollywood and a Palm OS-version of the new 700w Treo. Caris and Company analyst Susan Kalla has written a few research notes predicting that Palm will soon release the Treo 700p, which is expected to be pretty much the same device as the 700w Windows Mobile Treo, but with the Palm OS. Kalla expects Verizon, who was Palm's launch partner for the 700w, to likewise release the 700p on its EV-DO network. At some point thereafter, Palm appears ready to blow by the 750 name and head straight to the 800p, if a post this week on TreoCentral.com's forums is to be believed. The poster claims to have knowledge of the 800p, which is supposedly the same as the "Hollywood" Treos outlined by Engadget last November. The 800p is expected to drop the external antenna found on the Treo 650 and 700w and borrow the thin-is-in design principles seen in some of Motorola's new products. According to the poster (caution: consider the source), it will also feature a 3.2 megapixel camera, a detail that raised red flags from other posters and Treo followers around the Web. The new Treo 700w only uses a 1.3 megapixel camera, and it would be quite a leap to a 3.2 megapixel camera. Treos are one of the more expensive options for phone shoppers, but a new device called "Lowrider" might change that, according to several posts. Details about Lowrider are even sketchier than the other devices listed above, but it is described as a low-cost, entry-level device. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Rumor: Gaggle of Treos on the way Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.