https://www.cnet.com/news/best-blood-pressure-monitors-you-can-order-on-online/
The best blood pressure monitor for at-home use - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. The best blood pressure monitor for at-home use If you're taking your blood pressure at home, try one of these devices that meet the American Heart Association's standards. Danielle Kosecki March 22, 2020 10:36 PM PDT Leer en español Beurer BM 47 Upper Arm Blood Pressure Monitor Jump to details See at Beurer iHealth Ease Jump to details See at iHealth A&D Medical Premium Upper Arm Blood Pressure Monitor Jump to details See at A & D Medical Omron Platinum Wireless Upper Arm Blood Pressure Monitor Jump to details $75 at Omron iHealth Feel Wireless Blood Pressure Monitor Jump to details See at iHealth QardioArm Blood Pressure Monitor Jump to details $129 at Walmart Omron Complete Wireless Upper Arm Blood Pressure Monitor + EKG Jump to details $200 at Omron iHealth Sense Wireless Blood Pressure Monitor Jump to details $41 at Amazon Omron Gold Wireless Wrist Blood Pressure Monitor Jump to details $65 at Omron Show more (4 items) Shopping for the best blood pressure monitor? Good for you. It's never too early to start taking a series of easy, accurate readings and monitoring your blood pressure. A recent study in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology found that people who have high blood pressure, or hypertension, before age 40 are at an increased risk of heart disease later in life. But to know if you have high blood pressure, you need to take a series of measurements with an accurate home monitor. And according to the American Heart Association (AHA), monitoring accuracy depends on two things: a properly fitting blood pressure cuff (such as an upper arm or wrist blood pressure monitor) and independent validation. Now playing: Watch this: Omron HeartGuide puts blood pressure on a watch 2:58 Below are eight upper-arm based blood pressure monitors and two wrist based devices, which the AHA recommends only for people who cannot fit into traditional arm cuffs. Despite offering a wide variety of features at a range of prices, each of these monitoring devices has been independently validated against one or more set of AHA-recognized standards to track accurate blood pressure readings. In other words, no matter which form of monitoring you choose, your heart with thank you for the accuracy of measurement. Read more: The best thermometers for cold and flu Upper-arm based blood pressure monitors Beurer BM 47 Upper Arm Blood Pressure Monitor Beurer An illuminated start/stop button and large display makes this fully automatic, accurate blood pressure monitor super easy to use. The device saves an average of your morning and evening readings for a series of seven days in its memory and classifies your risk using a colored LED scale. The adjustable cuff accommodates arm sizes between 8.7 inches and 16.5 inches. The Beurer BM 47 can even detect arrhythmia with accuracy. See at Beurer iHealth Ease iHealth Get a good fit on the adjustable cuff, place your smartphone in the dock and fire up the accurate iHealth MyVitals mobile app (iOS and Android). The iHealth Ease can measure and store an unlimited series of readings from an unlimited number of users in its memory with accuracy and detect irregular heartbeats (and it's easy, like the name says). See at iHealth A&D Medical Premium Upper Arm Blood Pressure Monitor A&D Medical Pressing one button is all it takes to start an accurate reading on this product -- the large digital blood pressure display automatically averages a series of multiple measurements. Automatic? Now that's easy. Up to four people can use one device; the product will store and display a large number of readings (60) for each person with accuracy, though you can also download the A&D Connect companion health app to electronically log and track your pressure level and measurements. See at A & D Medical Read More: CES health and wellness products: The best of 2020 | 7 wellness products to try for a healthier you Panasonic EW3109W Portable Upper Arm Blood Pressure Monitor Panasonic This simple and slim blood pressure machine does the basics: measures your blood pressure and immediately alerts you if you're experiencing hypertension. Save and display a series of up to 90 accurate readings directly on the device's digital monitor; a large LCD screen makes it easy to read your blood pressure and your heart rate simultaneously. Read more. Omron Platinum Wireless Upper Arm Blood Pressure Monitor Omron Designed for two different users, the Omron Platinum BP monitor will automatically take a series of three consecutive, accurate readings at intervals that you can customize and then track and average the results. The large horizontal dual LCD display shows your current and prior reading side by side and has an automatic alert if you have high blood pressure -- if your systolic pressure is 130 mmHg or above and/or your diastolic pressure is 80 mmHg or above. That makes for an effective hypertension indicator. $75 at Omron iHealth Feel Wireless Blood Pressure Monitor iHealth Available in two cuff sizes depending on your fit, the iHealth Feel can take a series of 80 measurements on a single charge and track and store up to 200 readings in its memory. Instead of featuring a digital monitor or display on the device, iHealth outsources all data to the iHealth MyVitals Android and iOS apps where you can take notes and record your mood and activity with each measurement. The iHealth Feel also has the ability to detect irregular heartbeats. See at iHealth QardioArm Blood Pressure Monitor Qardio This is an easy BP monitor your whole family can use -- the product pairs wirelessly with up to eight smartphones or tablets at any given time. The device automatically averages three readings, monitoring and detecting irregular heartbeats, and stores all your measurements and notes in Qardio's HIPAA-compliant cloud. View and share your data on the Qardio App, where you can also set goals and reminders, or sync your data with Apple Health or S Health on Android devices. Read more. $129 at Walmart $80 at Adorama Omron Complete Wireless Upper Arm Blood Pressure Monitor + EKG Omron If irregular heart rhythms, hypertension and high blood pressure are a concern, the Omron Complete will have you covered. The device measures systolic and diastolic blood pressure, your pulse, atrial fibrillation, tachycardia, bradycardia and sinus rhythm simultaneously, and stores all your info and readings in the Omron Connect app. $200 at Omron Wrist based blood pressure monitors iHealth Sense Wireless Blood Pressure Monitor iHealth One reason wrist blood pressure monitor options aren't more widely recommended is because of their propensity for user error and lack of accuracy. The FDA approved iHealth Sense device helps minimize this risk by detecting your arm position and suggesting tweaks on the accompanying smartphone app. Results and readings from the automatic wrist blood pressure device are stored in the iHealth Cloud where you can export your data or share it with your doctor for your next doctor's appointment. $41 at Amazon Omron Gold Wireless Wrist Blood Pressure Monitor Omron The Omron Gold wrist blood pressure monitor packs many of the features of pricier upper-arm monitors into a small, quiet and convenient package for your wrist. This automatic blood pressure monitor averages a series of up to three readings taken over a 10-minute period and will alert you to hypertension, or high blood pressure. The wearable blood pressure device can store up to 200 readings from multiple users or wirelessly transmit results via Bluetooth to the Omron Connect free app, where you can track your blood pressure trends over time. $65 at Omron Read more: The 6 essential cold and flu products you need whether you're sick or not How to avoid getting sick on a plane Best portable humidifiers for dry skin, sinus relief and sore throats in 2020 7 wellness products to try for a healthier you The 10 best health and fitness podcasts you should The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Health and Wellness Notification on Notification off Monitors Close Discuss: The best blood pressure monitor for at-home use Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.