https://www.cnet.com/news/palm-centro-for-sprint-gets-official/
Palm Centro for Sprint gets official - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Palm Centro for Sprint gets official Palm and Sprint officially introduce the Palm Centro smart phone at Digital Life in New York. Bonnie Cha September 27, 2007 3:49 PM PDT Well, it wasn't a complete secret, but today, Palm and Sprint officially took the wraps off the Palm Centro at the Digital Life event in New York. It's the first non-Treo, as well as the smallest and lightest, smart phone from Palm, and the company hopes it will attract a new customer base of those ready to make the jump from cell phone to smart phone. Measuring 4.2 inches long by 2.1 inches wide and 0.7 inch deep and 4.2 ounces, the Centro has more of a cell-phone-like form factor but still has a full QWERTY keyboard and 65,000-color, 320x320-pixel touch screen. It also manages to pack in all the features of a Treo and then some. Messaging options are aplenty with VersaMail, Microsoft Direct Push Technology compatibility, support for Gmail, AOL, and Yahoo accounts, and threaded text messaging. Like the Treo 755p , Sprint also throws in Yahoo, AIM, and Windows Live instant messaging clients, which we always love to see. Web browsing should be swift with EV-DO support, and you can also access Sprint TV, YouTube, Yelp, and MySpace from the device. There's integrated Bluetooth 1.2 for hands-free kits, wireless headsets, and dial-up networking but no Wi-Fi. For multimedia, the Centro is equipped with a 1.3 megapixel camera with 2x digital zoom and video recording capabilities and for the first time, the smart phone ships with Pocket Tunes Deluxe (instead of the Standard edition) so you can listen to DRM-protected music. For now, the Centro won't work with the Sprint Music Store , though this is something that may be added in the future. Other highlights include 64MB user-accessible storage, a microSD expansion slot (can accept up to 4GB cards), Documents to Go Professional 10, Google Mobile Maps, and Palm OS 5.4.9. Sprint will have a 90-day exclusive on the Palm Centro, which comes in onyx black or ruby red, and it's expected to be available in mid-October for $99.99 with a two-year contract and after rebates. Sprint Power Vision packs start at $15 per month. Palm Centro in red Palm First impressions Palm actually stopped by our offices a couple of weeks ago to give us a sneak peek at the Centro, and I've got mixed feelings about the device, mostly about the design. The size of the Centro is certainly smaller than the bulky Treo, and I think it's a nice compromise between a regular cell phone and business-centric smart phone like the Sprint Mogul . However, the design doesn't do much for me. It lacks the flash and "wow" factor of a device from HTC or Nokia, and in the hand, it feels, well, a bit cheap. The navigation controls below the display feel plasticky, and I think the QWERTY keyboard may give some users problems since they had to cramp it into a smaller space. If anything, I could see the Centro attracting more female customers than men, which is part of Palm's goal. As for features, it's pretty well-stocked. Of course, the Palm OS is a bit outdated but it still offers ease of use and out-of-box Mac synchronization. You pretty much get all the essentials for work and play, the extra apps are a bonus, and hey, you can't beat the price. Anyway, those are just some initial thoughts. We expect to get a review unit within the next week or two; in the meantime, you can check out CNET TV Rich DeMuro's First Look video above and CNET UK's review of the similar Palm Treo 500v. Also, talk back to me! What do you think of the Centro? Comments Crave Gadgets Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Palm Centro for Sprint gets official Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.