https://www.cnet.com/news/server-crashes-slow-lines-frustrate-iphone-buyers/
Server crashes, slow lines frustrate iPhone buyers - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Server crashes, slow lines frustrate iPhone buyers The line for the iPhone 3G has proven to be far slower than its speedy predecessor, as Apple's iTunes servers failed to stay up to activate the hotly anticipated handsets. Caroline McCarthy July 11, 2008 1:52 PM PDT This post was updated at 10:34 a.m. PDT with further details of the server issues. NEW YORK--The process of obtaining an iPhone 3G appears to be going in slow motion because of AT&T activation server crashes that have been confirmed in New York, San Francisco, and Palo Alto, Calif. Unlike its predecessor last year, the iPhone 3G must be activated in-store, an antihacking measure that Apple had said could take 10 to 15 minutes. That's long enough to make the line move a lot more slowly than the speedy process that made last year's iPhone launch astonishingly efficient. But crashing AT&T servers required for the activation made it even worse. The initial lines for the iPhone 3G paled in comparison to the lines for the original iPhone, when everyone predicted shortages, but ultimately, it was possible to waltz into the Apple store several hours after launch time and get a phone almost immediately. Apple set an excellent precedent for any future tech product launches. It seems as if the iPhone 3G launch has failed to live up to the product launch standard Apple set last year. The new process didn't have the same assembly line precision, as evidenced by the first person to walk out of the Fifth Avenue store with an iPhone: 24-year-old David Yoo estimated that he'd been about 75th in line, but he somehow managed to be first out of the gate with a phone activated. But later in the morning, overloaded activation servers made lines slow to a crawl, with outages across the country. As the hordes of geeks and bloggers on Twitter reveal, some lines were at a standstill. High-energy product launches can, of course, lead to exaggeration, but it's clear that some people are a bit impatient. "In-store activation is a really, really bad idea--every line I saw was around the block and not moving," New York-based Fred Benenson wrote. "I tried getting an iPhone today--lines, lines, lines," wrote Darren Herman, who posted photos to his blog of a slow-moving line outside the SoHo Apple store in downtown New York. But then, in what the Twitter-verse has come to call the "iPocalypse," the servers needed for the activation process crashed completely. Apple soon ditched the in-store activation and was simply "unbricking" phones, letting buyers activate them at home rather than hold up the line because of crashed servers. As Apple store employees get the crowd geared up, the first guy waiting for the iPhone gets restrained by security. (Credit: Caroline McCarthy/CNET News.com) CNET News' reporters in San Francisco confirmed this, and later in the day, employees at the New York Apple store confirmed that they were doing this as well. My colleague Tom Krazit was told that while it was initially AT&T's activation servers that crashed, those are back up and that the current problem is with Apple's iTunes. That's not entirely accurate, AT&T representatives told CNET News.com later. "This is not an AT&T activation server issue...Apple (is) working to address issues affecting its iTunes software right now," an e-mail read. "We are suggesting to our customers that, after purchasing their new iPhone and voice and data plan, they sync the device later at home." The unbricking process was taking about 10 minutes, even minus the final activation. Around 10 a.m. PT, an Apple store employee in San Francisco informed those waiting in line that the activation service was back up and running. Outside of major urban hubs, there were also early signs of shortages. Boulder, Colo.-based Matt Galligan twittered that his local AT&T store had only 55 phones in stock and that he wasn't sure whether he'd be able to get one. And Jacksonville, Fla.-based Judson Collier said he'd checked three AT&T stores, only to find them all out of stock. Murray Williams in Lowell, Ark., twittered that the store would be out of stock before he got to the front of the line. The AT&T store in New York's Times Square was out of 16GB iPhones by noon. Elsewhere, tensions amounted. CNET's Josh Lowensohn posted to Twitter that a fight broke out at an AT&T store when a group of people tried to cut the line. Meanwhile, owners of older iPhones who were attempting to upgrade the software were getting error messages instead. The activation servers had affected those, too. But ask yourself this, gadget fans: do you really need the iPhone today? At worst, the activation process will get more efficient as store employees grow more used to it. At best, you can get one tomorrow or next week. It's OK. You'll survive. Click here for CNET News' complete iPhone 3G coverage. Comments Crave Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Server crashes, slow lines frustrate iPhone buyers Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.