https://www.cnet.com/news/too-many-cooks-parodies-80s-tv-with-a-sinister-twist/
'Too Many Cooks' parodies '80s TV, with a sinister twist - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In 'Too Many Cooks' parodies '80s TV, with a sinister twist Wacky TV sitcoms, crime shows, late-night soaps, Saturday morning cartoons and even space sagas get lampooned by Adult Swim in the ultimate creepy homage. Bonnie Burton November 8, 2014 10:49 AM PST Time for a family portrait. Say, who's that creepy guy on the stairs? Video screenshot by Bonnie Burton/CNET Anyone who's old enough to remember the intro sequences to such '80s sitcoms as "Too Close for Comfort," "ALF," "Family Ties" and "Growing Pains" will connect instantly with Adult Swim's tribute "Too Many Cooks." "Too Many Cooks" is the bizarre brainchild of Casper Kelly, who also wrote "Your Pretty Face is Going to Hell," as well as episodes of "Aqua Teen Hunger Force," "Squidbillies" and "Harvey Birdman, Attorney at Law." The parody pokes fun at the inane comedy cues of retro TV comedies and their ever-annoying earworm theme songs. But there's something not quite right the longer you continue to watch the video, which runs almost 12 minutes. (If you'd rather innocently watch "Too Cooks" without spoilers, skip to the end of this article and just watch the video.) Since "Too Many Cooks" aired as a short at 4 a.m. on Adult Swim, it has gained momentum on social media, with actors and directors alike becoming obsessed with the odd parody. "I highly, highly recommend you watch this before bed," "Shaun of the Dead" director Edgar Wright tweeted. "'Too Many Cooks' is so deftly engineered to unnerve stoned people in their mid 30s, it might actually have been created by the US government," actor Simon Pegg tweeted. After watching "Too Many Cooks" too many times, we have to agree. Related stories The 404 Show 1,578: 'Too Many Cooks' (podcast) 'Game of Thrones' gets 'Law & Order' mashup DIY Dalek and dapper Time Lord battle in 'Japanese Doctor Who' In the video, we see a long sequence of actors being called out in the opening credits, complete with the usual yellow lettering spelling out their names during cheesy freeze-frame smiles and posing. Typical characters pop up like the silly dad, the stylish mom, the caring grandmother, the nerd kid, the jock son, the promiscuous teen, the adorable twins, the even cuter baby and even a puppet cat named Smarf and the peeping-tom neighbor. But that's not all. Soon we're seeing other sitcom tropes included in the mix, which blends the office comedy with the family sitcom. There's the underappreciated employee, the snooping secretary and the mean boss. But if you look closely, a character who clearly doesn't belong seems to pop up in all the sequences -- a creepy, bearded, balding man in disheveled, dirty clothes -- lurking in the background like a sinister specter. He's grabbing spices from the kitchen cupboard, and even hiding out on the staircase behind an unsuspecting TV family taking a family portrait. Who exactly is this guy? Soon, police drama intros are the focus of "Too Many Cooks" and we see cops chasing down criminals, calling for backup and pulling out their guns in shootouts. And that creepy guy we spotted before is in the background shots here too. "There is all this cheerful stuff and you just want something unhappy to start emerging," Kelly told Vulture. "We put him in throughout. We hid him in various places and no one would notice it the first time they watched. I worried that people would only watch it once, so I was wondering if I should put arrows to show where he's hiding." Creepy guy in the background is up to something. Video screenshot by Bonnie Burton/CNET And you can't spoof '80s TV without adding in an intro to a "G.I. Joe"-type cartoon complete with explosions and a machine gun-toting chef. Now our mysterious man is wielding a machete and he looks like he no longer wants to be in the background, which is not a good omen for the rest of the video. After a seeming reference to the hit late-night soap opera "Falcon's Crest" -- hence the eerie sequence of a falcon giving us some evil side eye glance at around 3:46 -- the horror sequence begins. If Freddy Krueger is famous for killing his victims in their dreams, the weird machete guy of "Too Many Cooks" will be known for his brutal slaughter of actors trapped in a never-ending opening-credits sequence. No one is safe, no matter what TV show they're in. As the video progresses, the action gets even weirder. Actor Katie Adkins runs from the killer only to have her own glowing yellow credit give away her hiding place. And if the serial killer wasn't enough, it could very well be that the yellow name credits and continuous theme song are actually symptoms of a deadly virus. By the end of the video, you'll be scratching your head and wondering, "What the hell did I just watch?" And then watch it again. Comments Crave Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: 'Too Many Cooks' parodies '80s TV, with a sinister twist Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.