https://www.cnet.com/news/os-x-security-just-not-there-yet/
OS X security just not there yet - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In OS X security just not there yet Better, but needs more work. The Macalope November 28, 2007 1:14 PM PST David Maynor is back on his Apple security hobby horse and rocking it faster than a 5-year-old hopped up on pre-holiday candy canes. Despite his usual over-the-top Apple invective, he makes some valid points and provides some helpful information for people using QuickTime on Windows. Apple announced ASLR as a feature in their latest version of the operating system, Mac OS X 10.5 ( Tiger Leopard). However, Apple largely lied. You might be surprised to hear the Macalope agree with Maynor, but he's right. OK, maybe [See update below] "lied" is too strong, but they certainly misrepresented it. Read the OS X Leopard Security Technology Brief (PDF). In Leopard, libraries are loaded into random addresses when the system is installed and at any time that library prebinding is updated on the system (typically after system software updates, though you can manually force an update by running the "update_dyld_shared_cache -force" command). Now read Thomas Ptacek's roundup of Leopard security features. The dynamic linker library (dyld) is not randomized. From what I can tell, ten different Leopard macs booted at ten different times will have the same offset to dyld. You care because dyld is full of useful functionality. Like, dynamically linking new libraries into memory, or recovering the base addresses for existing libraries. Clearly, not all libraries are randomized and it's hard to take Apple's documentation any other way than saying that all of them are. [UPDATE: As a commenter points out, dyld is not a library itself. It's the pathway to libraries. So, yes, libraries are randomized, but that doesn't mean much if dyld isn't. It's like being in the witness protection program and having the government move you to an undisclosed location and then updating your address on Facebook so all your friends will know where you are!] Microsoft has impressed the security community with its dedication to secure coding practice. The Macalope suspects that the free keggers the company throws for security professionals and, well, everyone and their alcoholic mother don't hurt, either. And it's great that after years of making their users take it in the shorts on security by making them easy victims to, you know, actual real-world malware, that Microsoft can make bygones be bygones with security pros by tossing them some free shrimp like the barking seals that they are and then delivering a new OS with some good security features that sadly not that many people are taking advantage of because the cost in time, effort and cold, hard cash to upgrade from XP still often comes out to a losing proposition. But the Macalope readily admits that Apple has rested on some comfortable security laurels and for every step forward they've made there's been a half a step back. Installing Apple code on a Microsoft Vista system will make that system unsafe. Since these QuickTime vulnerabilities are equally exploitable on both Vista and Mac OS X 10.5, the fans might conclude that both operating systems are equally safe. This is not true, Vista is vastly more secure than the Macintosh. "Vastly" is debatable. The structure is there, Apple just needs to implement it properly. Many of the items Ptacek points out are user-correctible. Apple could be just a dot release away from fixing them if it wanted to. Apple's only advantage over Microsoft is their small market share, which means hackers are less interested in them. However, as hackers are having a harder time cracking Vista, they are getting more interested in the Mac, and we are seeing more exploits and more malware targeting Apple users. This isn't yet a problem thanks to the legacy installs of XP and previous versions of Windows, but it will become more true as more Windows users inevitably adopt Vista (or move to the Mac or Linux). The situation is helped along, of course, by so-called security "professionals" who -- either because they love those Microsoft-sponsored security conferences or because they just really, really hate that "I'm a Mac" guy! -- are all too willing to yell "Look over there!" Does the computer security industry ever strike you like a protection racket? "Nice operating system you have here. It'd be a shame if something were to happen to it." Apple seems to be making some of the right moves, but not in a comprehensive manner. The Macalope would rather 2008 were not the year of the great Mac security epidemic. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: OS X security just not there yet Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.