https://www.cnet.com/news/dells-inspiring-new-inspirons/
Dell's inspiring new Inspirons - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Dell's inspiring new Inspirons new laptops are upgraded versions of Dell's existing workhorse models Dan Ackerman June 26, 2007 7:00 AM PDT The new laptops Dell is announcing today have already been leaked, discussed extensively online, and even confirmed by Dell, but today's official launch event is still worth a mention. Dell's colorful new 14-, 15- and 17-inch laptops. Dell Unveiled on a fashion-show-like runway at Macy's in Herald Square, the new laptops are basically upgraded versions of Dell's existing workhorse 1505 and 1705 models, now with Intel's new Centrino Duo platform, 802.11n support, and a fairly radical (for Dell) new design. Also new to the party is a 14-inch laptop (our new preferred size for mainstream users) known as the Inspiron 1420, and the hot-to-trot XPS m1330, an upscale, superthin 13-inch model. All are available to order starting today. We'll have photos and video of the New York launch event later today, but for now, let's take a peek at the actual systems. Dell Inspiron 1520/1521 Replacing the popular E1505 , the new 1520 adds Intel's Santa Rosa platform to the mix, with an Intel 965 chipset, up to a Core 2 Duo T7500 CPU, 802.11n support, and optional Blu-ray drives and EV-DO. The 1521 model uses AMD processors instead, and both come in your choice of colors, from Midnight Blue to Bubblegum Pink. The 1520 starts at $848, the 1521 at $749. Dell Inspiron 1720/1721 A sequel to the E1705 , which we admired as a highly configurable desktop replacement, the new 1720 offers the same upgraded Intel Centrino Duo parts as the 1520, as well as the optional Blu-ray drive and EV-DO, plus a Nvidia GeForce Go 8600 graphics chip. Dual hard drives and resolutions up to 1920x1200 are also available. The 1721 differs in its (you guessed it) AMD CPUs, and the same rainbow of color options is available. The 1720 starts at $999, the 1721 at $899. Dell Inspiron 1420 Honestly, 15-inch laptops seem so bulky and dated now, it's not surprising that people are flocking to 14-inch models instead for mainstream, middle-of-the-road use. The new Inspiron 1420 has the same high-end CPUs and video card options as the 15-inch models, but in a smaller--and we think more attractive--package. The 1420 starts at $799. The XPS m1330 Dell XPS m1330 The flagship of Dell's new laptop line, the 13-inch XPS m1330 is the first Dell laptop we've seen where design clearly came first. It's among the thinnest and lightest 13-inch systems we've ever seen, but offers pretty much the same powerful CPU, graphics, and networking options as the larger 14- and 15-inch models, plus an LED backlit display. The XPS m1330 starts at $1,299. Check out our full Inspiron review . Comments Crave Laptops Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Dell's inspiring new Inspirons Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.