https://www.cnet.com/news/google-reportedly-cuts-off-huawei-phones-from-future-android-updates/
Google cuts off Huawei phones from future Android updates - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Google cuts off Huawei phones from future Android updates The move follows President Trump's executive order that effectively bans Huawei in the US. Chipmakers will reportedly stop selling to Huawei, too. Natalie Weinstein May 20, 2019 4:45 AM PDT What would Huawei phones without Android be like? Andrew Hoyle/CNET Google has suspended business with Huawei that isn't covered under open-source licensing, Reuters reported Sunday, following the Trump administration's decision to effectively ban the Chinese company in the US. Huawei is losing Android operating system updates, a source close to the matter told Reuters, and Huawei's upcoming phones outside China will no longer get access to apps and services like Gmail and Google Play. Google also will no longer offer technical support to Huawei, the source told Reuters. "We are complying with the order and reviewing the implications. For users of our services, Google Play and the security protections from Google Play Protect will continue to function on existing Huawei devices," Google said in a statement emailed to CNET on Sunday night. Chipmakers Intel, Qualcomm, Xilinx and Broadcom are also responding to the Trump administration's ban, telling their employees they won't supply Huawei until further notice, Bloomberg reported Sunday, citing anonymous sources. Germany's Infineon ceased deliveries as well, according to Nikkei. "We are aware of the denial order issued by the US Department of Commerce with respect to Huawei, and we are cooperating," a Xilinx spokesperson said via email, but didn't offer more details. Last week, President Donald Trump signed an executive order that declares foreign adversary threats to communications networks, technology and services a national emergency. The order puts limits on foreign involvement in the nation's carrier networks. In a parallel move, the Commerce Department added Huawei to its trade blacklist. Now playing: Watch this: What is going on between Huawei and the US? 4:59 The core concern has been Huawei's coziness with the Chinese government and fears that its equipment could be used to spy on other countries and companies. Huawei has repeatedly denied that its products pose a security threat. The mobile giant and telecom equipment maker will still have access to the version of Android that's available via open-source licensing. Huawei noted Monday in an emailed statement that the company has "made substantial contributions to the development and growth of Android around the world." "As one of Android's key global partners, we have worked closely with their open-source platform to develop an ecosystem that has benefitted both users and the industry," the company said. "Huawei will continue to provide security updates and after-sales services to all existing Huawei and Honor smartphone and tablet products, covering those that have been sold and that are still in stock globally." Huawei's immediate reaction last week to the executive order was an assertion that it will hurt the rollout of 5G in the US, according to Reuters, but Huawei CEO Ren Zhengfei acknowledged Saturday that his company's growth "may slow, but only slightly" following the US government's action. Read: Samsung has most to gain from Google putting Huawei on ice CNET's Sean Keane and Katie Collins contributed to this report. First published May 19 at 2:38 p.m. PT. Update, May 20 at 2:28 a.m. PT: Adds more reactions to the executive order. Update, May 20 at 4:45 a.m. PT: Adds statement from Huawei. Comments Security Phones Politics Google Huawei Donald Trump Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Google cuts off Huawei phones from future Android updates Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.