https://www.cnet.com/news/intel-sheds-a-little-more-light-on-silverthorne/
Intel sheds a little more light on Silverthorne - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Intel sheds a little more light on Silverthorne The tiny Silverthorne chip is power-efficient, but it's still not quite enough for Intel to take on the smartphone industry. Tom Krazit February 5, 2008 12:02 PM PST Intel filled in some of the missing details on its Silverthorne mobile processor Tuesday, helping explain how it managed to get the power consumption of this chip down under a couple of watts. Gianfranco Gerosa of Intel presented the company's paper on Silverthorne, its low-power mobile processor destined for the next generation of mobile Internet devices later this quarter, during the International Solid State Circuits Conference in San Francisco. Intel Chief Technology Officer Justin Rattner had already discussed Silverthorne in some detail last week, but the wonky details were laid bare for a roomful of people who are way, way smarter than me. A few Silverthorne tidbits, however, could be deciphered by those of us who wasted their education dollars on a business degree. This chip is tiny, measuring just 3.1 millimeters by 7.8 millimeters for a die size of 24.2 millimeters squared. By comparison, the dual-core version of Intel's newest Penryn chips for PCs has a die size of 107 millimeters squared. That means Intel can make roughly four times as many Silverthorne chips on a single silicon wafer as compared with the dual-core Penryns. Let's see how much the company decides to charge for it. The chip will be able to reach 2.5GHz, although Intel is quoting a 2GHz clock speed for the 2-watt thermal design power, or the maximum power consumption that system designers have to take into account when building their devices. It uses a 16-stage pipeline, compared to the 14-stage pipeline used by the Core 2 Duo chips. Think of a pipeline stage as part of an assembly line: the more stages in the process, the faster it has to run to build something in the same amount of time as a line with fewer steps. Intel's Pentium 4 processor topped out at 31 stages, which allowed the company to crank it up over 3GHz to satisfy the marketing department's proclamation that the only thing us mortal PC buyers understood was clock speed. Unfortunately for Intel, that wasn't a very sound design. A chip running at that kind of speed runs way too hot, especially as current leakage problems became more pronounced, so Intel designed the Pentium M microprocessor with fewer pipeline stages. It did more work per stage, which allowed it to run slower and cooler. Eventually, those design principles were incorporated into the Core lineup of processors, and Intel got its mojo back. So it's a bit surprising that its most serious low-power effort to date would have two additional pipeline stages, but Intel got around that problem by switching to an in-order pipeline, and by adding hyperthreading. That combination produced the most efficient performance-per-watt ratings in Intel's internal testing, Gerosa said. Silverthorne also makes use of several low-power states in which the chip shuts down certain elements of the processor when they aren't required by the software. Intel estimates that Silverthorne will spend 90 percent of its time in deepest sleep state, which it calls C6. Virtually everything gets turned off in C6, and it takes 100 microseconds to wake the chip back up when new processing orders come in, Gerosa said. As a result, Intel is quoting average power numbers for Silverthorne "in the order of a few hundred (milliwatts)," which sounds like quite the accomplishment. That will be nice for battery life, but it doesn't really matter when it comes to building a sleek device. Anyone who wants to use Silverthorne will have to design a device that can handle the full 2 watts of power that Silverthorne will consume running flat out. After all, the whole point of Intel's pitch to put x86 chips in mobile devices is that those devices would be able to run Windows and any piece of PC software. While Intel is increasingly pitching Linux for its mobile devices--and keeping a close eye on that other mobile operating system--there are certain tasks that are going to require all the processing power Silverthorne can deliver. The MIDs that Intel and its partners have shown off using Silverthorne don't look all that different from the older MIDs that haven't sold very well to date. They're still a little too bulky to compete with slicker smart phones from the likes of Nokia, Samsung, and Apple, which are powered by chips designed by ARM for mobile phones. True competition from Intel in this area probably won't arrive until the Moorestown chip is ready in a couple of years, but Silverthorne is a milestone on that path. We'll start to see if people are interested in MIDs based on the chip by the middle of this year, when we'll also get a true sense of its performance. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Intel sheds a little more light on Silverthorne Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.