https://www.cnet.com/news/palms-losses-continue-but-centro-proclaimed-a-hit/
Palm's losses continue, but Centro proclaimed a hit - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Palm's losses continue, but Centro proclaimed a hit Centro shipments set a company record, but Palm's still having a rough time battling component shortages and getting products out on schedule. Tom Krazit December 18, 2007 3:15 PM PST Palm reported sharp declines in revenue and earnings on Tuesday, as expected, but demand for its Centro smartphone is outpacing the company's ability to supply its carrier partners, according to executives. We already knew that Palm's second-fiscal quarter, which ended November 30, was going to be a bad one. In fact, Palm has been laying off employees this month as a result of the earnings shortfall. The company confirmed the ugly numbers: It lost $9.6 million, or 9 cents a share, and revenue fell 11 percent to $349.6 million. Palm's Centro was the one bright spot during a pretty bad second quarter. CNET Networks CEO Ed Colligan revealed that the mystery product that Palm had failed to qualify during the quarter was the Treo 755p, which made its debut with Verizon just this week. Andy Brown, Palm's CFO, said that revenue for the quarter was on course to be flat compared with last year until it became clear the 755p wasn't going to make it out the door by the end of November. But there was a significant bright spot during the quarter. The Centro set a company record for "sell-through" shipments--phones that actually made their way into the hands of customers as opposed to retailers--during the quarter, according to Colligan. The $99 Centro is available from Sprint, and Palm is finding it hard to keep up with demand. That means, unfortunately, that things still have to get worse before they get better. Colligan expects Centro shipments to increase, but the company is also worried about component shortages affecting its ability to ship products to Sprint. Therefore, the midpoint of Palm's revenue guidance for the current quarter, at $315 million, was $43 million below what financial analysts were expecting, according to Thomson One. Colligan credited Jon Rubinstein, chairman of the board, as having had a "profound impact" on Palm in his short time aboard since Elevation Partners became Palm's largest shareholder. The company is refocusing its efforts around building "world-class quality" smartphones and wants to "retake the mantle of design and innovation leadership," Colligan said. The proof, as always, will be in the products. Colligan said we can expect new Treos later this year, and the company continues to work on its next-generation operating system, so desperately needed to replace the ancient Palm OS. That's not expected until the end of next year, but if Palm can get some mileage out of the Centro and the Treo 500, maybe that can hold the company over until the new software is ready to let Palm really start competing with the software capabilities available on some of today's smartphones. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Palm's losses continue, but Centro proclaimed a hit Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.