https://www.cnet.com/news/3-announces-unlimited-skype-calls-and-other-goodies/
3 announces unlimited Skype calls and other goodies - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In 3 announces unlimited Skype calls and other goodies Today 3 announced it will provide users with a new plan called X-Series that will do away with pay-as-you-surf mobile Internet and bring unlimited Web browsing to your phone Andrew Lim November 16, 2006 2:14 PM PST Hutchison, more commonly known as 3 in the UK, today announced a partnership with Skype, Sling Media, Yahoo, Nokia, Google, eBay, Microsoft, Orb and Sony Ericsson. The idea is to bring all of these services on to your mobile for a flat rate fee -- it's been dubbed 'X-Series'. According to the hype, you'll get free Skype-to-Skype calls to any PC or other X-Series user worldwide, be able to search on Google and Yahoo, send MSN instant messages to your friends, watch your TV from a Slingbox, access your computer at home with Orb and buy or sell stuff on eBay. So far the only thing getting between the majority of consumers and the mobile Internet has been the cost of accessing online content and the limitations of certain sites on certain handsets. 3 says it is going to eradicate these problems by charging a set fee and making sure that its handsets support the content properly. The first handsets to be sold on the X-Series plan will be the Nokia N73 and the Sony Ericsson W950i Walkman phone. Researchers at IDC say that 1.3 billion people will connect to the Internet via mobile phones by 2008, and a recent study by Informa Telecoms and Media and the Mobile Entertainment Forum estimated that mobile user-generated content will be worth $13.2bn by 2011. As most of the speakers at this morning's presentation pointed out, the traditional mobile strategy of charging people per megabyte is like using dial-up, whereas a flat-rate plan will give users the freedom to do much more. This isn't the first time we've seen a flat-rate plan go into action, though. T-Mobile also started its Web'n'Walk plan this year, charging users £7.50 for unlimited mobile Internet use. The main difference between these two services, though, is that 3 is planning to offer a better overall package, with more preinstalled applications than T-Mobile. The X-Series service will be available in December. Some sceptics have pointed out that these services will not work properly over a 3G connection or using the proposed handsets, but we tested it out without any major problems. It will be interesting to see if it works as well when hundreds of people are using Skype over 3G in the same cell, but we'll have to wait until Christmas to find out. The people in the photograph might look like a normal bunch of suits but they could be behind one of the most significant mobile content deals ever. From left to right is Christian Salbaing, managing director of European telecommunications for Hutchison in Europe, standing next to Frank Sixt, group finance director for Hutchison Whampoa Limited. Then there's Blake Krikorian, chief executive and co-founder of Sling Media, Canning Fok Kin-ning, group managing director of Hutchison Whampoa Limited, Miles Flint, president of Sony Ericsson and Sharon Baylay, general manager of Microsoft Online Services Group, UK. Finally, Dr Kai Öistämö, executive vice president and general manager of mobile phones for Nokia, Niklas Zennström, chief executive and co-founder of Skype, Scott Monson, general manager for Orb Europe and David Thévenon, head of wireless partnerships EMEA for Google. Also there but not in the picture was Dominique Vidal, regional vice-president and managing director of Yahoo Europe. Meg Whitman, chief executive of eBay and Terry Semel, chief executive of Yahoo, made appearances, too, via pre-recorded videos. -AL Correction: An earlier version of this story had an incorrect spelling of the company name Hutchison Whampoa Limited. CNET.co.uk regrets the error. Comments Phones Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: 3 announces unlimited Skype calls and other goodies Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.