https://www.cnet.com/news/amd-manufacturing-plans-still-fuzzy/
AMD manufacturing plans still fuzzy - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In AMD manufacturing plans still fuzzy Earlier this year, AMD promised July would bring more details about the future of its manufacturing strategies, but it doesn't look like that's going to happen. Tom Krazit July 26, 2007 1:17 PM PDT The future of AMD's asset-light manufacturing strategy remained detail-light Thursday. There's been lots of speculation about AMD's manufacturing plans this year as the company has posted heavy losses, and it has intensified since CEO Hector Ruiz made comments about possible changes to the company's strategy on its first-quarter earnings conference call. But AMD hasn't shared any plans about its future mix of manufacturing capacity during neither its second-quarter earnings call earlier this month, nor Thursday's technology analyst meeting. Doug Grose, senior vice president at AMD in charge of manufacturing, reiterated that "asset light" does not mean dumping all of AMD's chip plants and embracing the fabless model, in which chip foundries like Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing, United Microelectronics and Chartered would make the company's processors and chipsets. But he did not provide any guidance about whether AMD would increase the percentage of third-party foundries it uses to make chips, acknowledging that "I know that a lot of us wanted to hear a lot more details today on asset light." The problem is simple: modern chipmaking factories cost a hell of a lot to build. And with AMD's losses this year, the company is scaling back its ambitions to a certain degree. It plans to slow the conversion of an older facility in Germany to newer chip-making equipment, and it has until 2009 to decide whether to go through with plans to build an advanced fab in upstate New York. Some aspects of an asset-light strategy are already in place. Right now, AMD has an arrangement with Chartered to build processors, and uses TSMC and UMC to make some of its graphics chips. It also has a partnership with IBM to share the cost of advanced research and development into making sure it can continue to produce more powerful transistors. But financial analysts have wondered whether the company plans to make greater use of those partners in the future, especially on the manufacturing side, to reduce its cost structure. But Grose and other AMD executives aren't showing their cards just yet, citing "competitive reasons." Grose did talk a little about AMD's plans for upcoming manufacturing technology transitions. AMD is on track to introduce chips built on its 45-nanometer technology in the middle of 2008. But it appears AMD isn't going to use the metal gate technology unveiled with great fanfare by IBM earlier this year on its first generation of 45-nanometer chips, waiting instead until either the second iteration of 45-nanometer chips or the first generation of its 32-nanometer chips, Grose said. Grose did touch on the complexity that will be involved when AMD is ready to build its Fusion processor. Fusion is a combination PC processor and graphics processor, and right now those two products use different manufacturing technologies. In 2009, AMD will have to figure out how to blend those technologies with its mix of manufacturing partners, and that will be "very interesting," he said. Comments Culture Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: AMD manufacturing plans still fuzzy Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.