https://www.cnet.com/news/ces-2018-preview-the-smart-home-will-get-even-smarter/
CES 2018 preview: The smart home gets smarter - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CES 2018 preview: The smart home gets smarter We take a look at the smart home and appliance trends that might show up at CES 2018. Megan Wollerton December 22, 2017 5:00 AM PST Leer en español CNET CES 2018 kicks off in early January and CNET will be there in force, scouring Las Vegas convention halls and pop-up casino demo rooms for the latest product innovations. Not only is CES one of the largest tech shows in the world, smart home devices and large appliances have had an increasing presence at the annual event in recent years. At CES 2017, so many companies announced integrations with voice assistants that we compiled a "scoreboard" to keep track. Amazon's Alexa dominated with 33 new partnerships, followed by 18 from Apple's Siri-powered HomeKit platform; Google Assistant trailed behind with 10. We also saw a lot of robots. Yes, robots. Some were kind of creepy, others we downright adorable -- but all of them were supposed to help make your home smarter. So, what does the upcoming CES have in store for the smart home? We don't know for sure, but it's going to be big if last year's show was any indication. Here's a look at smart home and appliance trends we think we might see at CES 2018. Read more Google Home's 2017 in review: All grown up and ready to battle After a busy 2017, Alexa is still on top -- and still evolving Apple HomePod likely a no-show at CES, but it could win anyway Enlarge Image The Google Home Mini, Google Home Max and Google Home speakers. Chris Monroe/CNET Voice assistants By "voice assistants," I don't mean new AI platforms to compete with Alexa, HomeKit and the Google Assistant (although that's entirely possible too). I instead expect to see something of a repeat from CES 2017 -- announcements of new and existing smart home products adding Alexa, HomeKit and Google Assistant voice functionality. Where last year was heavily weighted toward Alexa integrations, I expect to see more HomeKit and Google Assistant announcements in 2018. Apple's HomePod smart speaker might have missed the holiday season for this year, but that won't stop third-party device makers from extending support for Siri. Enlarge Image Simplehuman's Wide-View Sensor Mirror. Chris Monroe/CNET Beauty and fashion products We've also seen an uptick in smart beauty and fashion devices lately. Simplehuman sells a couple of different smart mirrors, designed to help you optimize your look whether you're spending the day in natural or fluorescent light. A smart hairbush called the Kerastase Hair Coach was on display at CES 2017. Its proposed goal? To collect data as you brush your hair via integrated sensors and give you related care recommendations. MAC makeup stores are getting AR mirrors so you can "try on" different products without, you know, actually having to try them on. And what about Amazon's quirky Echo Look camera? It judges your outfits and tells you what to wear. A new Echo Look update even lets you ask strangers for fashion advice. I'd be surprised if we didn't see a few new products in these categories at CES 2018. Enlarge Image Jibo. Tyler Lizenby/CNET Robots We saw robots in droves at CES 2017 and the fascination will likely continue into 2018. But the smart home bots we've seen so far have been pretty hit-or-miss. Jibo (pictured above) is kind of cute, but it doesn't do much -- including move, beyond panning and tilting its head and an admittedly endearing, but stationary wiggle-dance. It also costs a whopping $899. Panasonic showcased a mobile mini fridge-bot at IFA 2017 that will bring you chilled sake, no effort required. Others, like Kuri by Mayfield Robotics, can actually move around and claim to recognize faces, but we haven't had the chance to test them out just yet. It would be exciting to see new assistant robots at the show in January. Now playing: Watch this: The huge TV screens of CES 2018 are coming for you! (The... 4:13 Facial recognition Face-scanning technology isn't new; we've seen it on the Netatmo Welcome security camera, the Microsoft Kinect (which Microsoft no longer makes) and plenty of other consumer products. But recent advances in machine learning have helped bring facial recognition to even more devices, from the iPhone X to Nest's IQ cameras and its Hello doorbell. We're also seeing an increase in home security cameras supporting "person alerts." Person alerts can't tell you who they see, but they should be able to distinguish between a person and your neighbor's cat -- and send you a notification about it. At CES 2018, I expect to see even more manufacturers introduce facial recognition (or person alerts) as a feature. Enlarge Image The GE GTW750CSLWS washing machine works with Amazon's Echo Show speaker. Chris Monroe/CNET Smart appliances Fridges, dishwashers and other large appliances with integrated smarts have been around for awhile, too. Only a few have managed to offer any real convenience, though. I'm not convinced we'll see much movement in this space at CES beyond some additional voice assistant integrations. But the Kitchen and Bath Industry Show is happening the same week as CES 2018, so expect to see appliance coverage from both shows. And, who knows, maybe we'll see a smart appliance or two. Want to see if these predictions come true at CES 2018? Bookmark this page, where you'll find all of the latest news straight from the show floor starting in early January. Comments CES 2018 Nest Alexa Amazon Robots Voice recognition Google Microsoft Panasonic Apple HomeKit Notification on Notification off Smart Home Close Discuss: CES 2018 preview: The smart home gets smarter Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.