https://www.cnet.com/news/intel-reaches-back-in-time-for-its-ultralow-power-chips/
Intel reaches back in time for its ultralow power chips - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Intel reaches back in time for its ultralow power chips An architectural idea that dropped out of Intel's chip line years ago makes a comeback in its low power chips. Michael Kanellos January 28, 2008 12:17 PM PST It appears that Intel has turned the clock back several years in terms of chip architecture to reduce power in the upcoming Silverthorne mobile chip. At the International Solid States Circuits Conference next week, chip designers from the company will discuss a mobile processor based around the x86 Intel Architecture that uses an "in-order pipeline" among other features. To most people, "in-order pipeline" doesn't mean doodly-squat, but in chip design it's a big deal. Chips with this sort of pipeline, sort of a microprocessor's assembly line, have to perform tasks in a specified manner. If it needs data to perform a specific calculation, everything stops until the data comes in. Chips with an out-of-order pipeline can perform tasks further down the line. Out-of-order chips have higher performance, but they burn more energy. Intel PC chips have been based around out-of-order pipelines since the mid-'90s. The Pentium Pro was one of the first big hits the company had with this sort of architecture. Tiny Via Technologies used an in-order pipeline on its low-power C7 chip and will later this year come out with its first out-of-order chip. Glenn Henry, who runs Centaur (Via's chip design group) was the one to tip us off that Silverthorne would be an in-order chip. Intel did not use the name "Silverthorne" in the conference materials, but the technical details of the chip that the company will discuss at ISSCC, and the details the company has provided about Silverthorne, are the same. Both are described as having 47 million transistors and being made on the 45-nanometer process. The power consumption in the conference entry says the chip will consume less than 2 watts. Silverthorne is said to consume 10 times less than current mobile chips, which puts it in the same range. Companies also don't put far-out prototypes at ISSCC. Usually, they discuss chips about to come out. Silverthorne is due soon. And both come out of Texas. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Intel reaches back in time for its ultralow power chips Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.