https://www.cnet.com/news/home-security-systems-you-can-install-yourself/
Our favorite DIY home security systems of 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Our favorite DIY home security systems of 2020 Keep an eye on things with these do-it-yourself home security systems. Megan Wollerton March 1, 2020 5:00 AM PST Tyler Lizenby/CNET Do-it-yourself home security companies aren't like the ADTs and Vivints of the world. Instead of locking you into a multiyear contract, most DIY systems give you the flexibility to chose how and when you monitor your home. That usually means you can sign up for a monitoring service on an optional basis and cancel any time -- without early termination fees or other hidden charges. Our favorite overall security products The best professional monitoring, DIY systems, video doorbells and more Scroll through your options below to learn more about the best DIY home security systems available today. The best DIY home security systems Best overall DIY security SimpliSafe Home Security Chris Monroe/CNET SimpliSafe was one of the first DIY home security systems to hit stores and is a reasonable alternative to ADT and other professional firms. That's due in large part to its wide variety of accessories. Its starter kit costs just $230 and underwent a hardware update recently that looks much better than before. You still have to pay at least $15 per month to access any remote security features (something that's typically offered for free with other systems), but SimpliSafe's impressive array of accessories and solid performance make it our top pick overall. Read the SimpliSafe Home Security review. See at Simplisafe Read more: Top 6 cheap home security devices of 2020 Best smart home support Abode Chris Monroe/CNET Abode has all of the standard sensors and devices for an easy entry-level security system. It integrates with Amazon Alexa, IFTTT and Nest for voice-enabled arming and disarming, as well as other advanced automations. You can add accessories to the system a la carte. Professional monitoring is available for $30 per month and includes cellular backup. It also supports Zigbee and Z-Wave, which means you can connect the system to a wide variety of third-party devices so you can control everything from within the Abode app. I wish you didn't have to use Abode's web app to make custom rules and automations, but this scalable self-install system delivers reliable performance at a good value. Read the Abode review. See at Amazon Read more: Top cheap home securi ty devices of 2020 Best Google Assistant DIY system Nest Secure Tyler Lizenby/CNET The $499 Nest Secure alarm system starter pack comes with one Guard hub, two Tag key fobs and two Detect door/window/motion sensors. You can arm and disarm the system by entering a PIN code on the Guard's integrated key pad, by tapping a paired Tag fob over the top of the Guard hub -- or by changing the mode in the related Nest app for Android and iPhone. The Detect sensors are my favorite part of Nest's Secure system, as you can temporarily disarm a single Detect while continuing to monitor the rest of your home. That way, you can open a window, grab the paper from your front yard -- and more -- without having to disarm your Nest Secure system. Read the Nest Secure review. See at Best Buy Now playing: Watch this: Nest's alarm system is expensive, but secure 1:42 Other DIY home security options The above list covers our favorite self-install home security systems, but there are other options out there. Here's a rundown of what else is available today. Honeywell Smart Home Security System Chris Monroe/CNET Honeywell's Smart Home Security System is a DIY kit. The system's main hub is called the Camera Base Station; it's equipped with 1080p high-definition live streaming, a 145-degree viewing angle and free 24-hour cloud storage (this will change to three days during a future update). You can also add to the system with an assortment of optional accessories. Professional monitoring is not available on this system. Here's the list of bundled kits and standalone devices, with pricing: Starter Kit (Camera Base Station, 2 Access Sensors, Key Fob) -- $500 Camera Base Station -- $400 Door and Window Access Sensors -- $40 Key Fob -- $30 Motion Sensor -- $50 Indoor MotionViewer -- $99 Outdoor MotionViewer -- $199 Read the Honeywell Smart Home Security System review. See at Amazon Scout Alarm Home Security System Tyler Lizenby/CNET The Scout Alarm security system includes a $129 hub, a $29 door/window sensor, a $49 motion sensor and a $40 water sensor -- that's $247 total. Pay $10 per month for professional monitoring, cellular and battery backup and a variety of other features. (Read more about Scout's monitoring services.) Scout works with Amazon Alexa for arming and disarming, but it doesn't have very many accessories to choose from. Read the Scout Alarm Home Security System review. See at Scout Alarm SmartThings ADT Home Security Starter Kit Juan Garzón/CNET The $550 SmartThings ADT Home Security Starter Kit includes a 7-inch SmartThings panel, two door/window sensors and one motion detector. Its optional $200 expansion kit comes with a smoke detector, a carbon monoxide detector and a water leak sensor. Unlike the other DIY systems on this list, SmartThings' system comes with contract-free professional monitoring from ADT. It starts at $15 per month and goes up to $35 per month for full monitoring of both "life safety" and "home security" products. Read the SmartThings ADT Home Security Starter Kit article. See at Amazon Still have questions? Check out this comprehensive guide to all things home security. Best video doorbells: Which buzzer is best for your home? Best security cameras: Find the right security camera right now Editors' note, Dec. 19, 2019 : Over 3,000 Ring customers have recently had their personal account information exposed, according to reports. We are removing all Ring products from recommendation. CNET Smart Home See All • reading Our favorite DIY home security systems of 2020 • Mar 27 Here's the best Wi-Fi range extender for almost everybody • Mar 27 The best coffee grinder you can buy right now • Mar 26 9 online cooking classes to keep you full and fulfilled • Mar 26 Ode to the $5 pot scraper Comments CNET Smart Home Security Honeywell Nest Wink SmartThings Amazon Best Buy Samsung Notification on Notification off Smart Home Close Discuss: Our favorite DIY home security systems of 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.