https://www.cnet.com/news/ztes-business-has-come-a-grinding-halt-after-the-us-ban/
ZTE's business comes to a grinding halt after the US ban - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In ZTE's business comes to a grinding halt after the US ban It's hard to get things done when the government stops you from getting parts from US companies for seven years. Alfred Ng May 9, 2018 1:30 PM PDT One of ZTE's phones. Josh Miller/CNET The US government's export ban on ZTE has effectively brought the Chinese telecom giant and phone maker to its knees. In a Hong Kong Exchanges filing on Wednesday, ZTE told investors that the "major operating activities of the company have ceased" because of the US Commerce Department's export ban. In April, US officials said they were imposing a "denial of export privileges" against ZTE, which means US companies can't sell products and services to the Chinese company. The ban, which lasts for seven years, followed the government's determination that ZTE violated terms of a 2017 settlement by failing to fire employees involved with illegally shipping US equipment to Iran and North Korea. In Wednesday's filing, ZTE said it's actively communicating with US officials in an attempt to reverse the ban, or at least lighten it. The Chinese government has also reportedly been involved with the negotiations. In a statement, the Department of Commerce said ZTE doesn't have administrative appeal rights under the Export Administration Regulations. But the department's Bureau of Industry and Security "is exercising its discretion to grant ZTE the opportunity to present additional evidence through informal procedures and will give this information prompt consideration." ZTE is still functioning, the company said, because it "maintains sufficient cash and strictly adheres to its commercial obligations," but it is struggling to push ahead and launch or sell new products because of the ban. This isn't the only Chinese phone company in hot water with the US government. Federal officials publicly warned earlier this year against using Chinese phone giant Huawei's devices due to spying and security risks for US telecommunications infrastructure. ZTE said will announce any developments related to its banned status as soon as it is "practicable." First published May 9 at 8:50 a.m. PT. Update at 1:30 p.m. PT: Adds statement from the Department of Commerce. Cambridge Analytica: Everything you need to know about Facebook's data mining scandal. Follow the Money: This is how digital cash is changing the way we save, shop and work. Comments Mobile Notification on Notification off Zte Close Discuss: ZTE's business comes to a grinding halt after the US ban Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.