https://www.cnet.com/news/amd-helping-developers-get-ready-for-octo-core/
AMD helping developers get ready for octo-core - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In AMD helping developers get ready for octo-core A new specification from AMD could make it easier for software developers to take advantage of processors with multiple cores, should it wind up in future products. Tom Krazit August 14, 2007 1:24 PM PDT It seems only fair that since the hardware side of the computing world plowed ahead with parallelized computing, they should help out the software development community. In that spirit, AMD plans to let developers take a crack at its Light-Weight Profiler Tuesday as a possible assist for the growing problem faced by PC software developers: just how the hell are we going to effectively use processors with multiple cores? AMD's LWP could let applications written for runtime environments like Java or .Net interact directly with hardware to know how much performance is available across a series of cores, said Earl Stahl, vice president of software alliances for AMD. Much has been written about the need for the PC software development community to move past the "free lunch" era, when it could write a single-threaded application and watch its performance improve over time as a processor's clock speed got faster and faster. That ended with the overheating concerns presented by fast single-core chips. Parallel programming is nothing new to the server world, but it's a new path for PC software developers and new techniques are needed to make sure client applications will show improved performance as the number of cores on a chip increases at a faster rate than the actual clock speed of that chip. LWP is designed to help developers boost the performance of applications created for runtime environments like Java or .NET, such as Web-based applications. Right now, those applications don't talk directly to the processor to see how much performance they've got in the pipeline; they have to go through the operating system. LWP will let that application code see exactly what resources are available, allowing the code to avoid overloaded cache memory in one core, for example, and avoid the performance penalty caused by asking the operating system to query every core. Right now, this isn't an immediate problem. As we move forward with quad-core chips and eventually to eight cores or more, however, applications will need to know how to allocate themselves across those idle cores, Stahl said. AMD hopes LWP will help a new generation of application development tools make those decisions. Interested developers can check out the specification on AMD's site, Stahl said. The company's holding the equivalent of a public comment period during which developers can submit feedback for a final specification that could be incorporated into future AMD processors as an extension to the x86 instruction set, such as AMD's 64-bit AMD64 instructions or Intel's SSE multimedia instructions. Eight-core PC chips won't be very common until around the end of this decade at the earliest, giving the industry some time to tackle the problem. Comments Culture Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: AMD helping developers get ready for octo-core Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.