https://www.cnet.com/news/nokia-n95-and-the-band-played-on/
Nokia N95: And the band played on... - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Nokia N95: And the band played on... The Nokia N95 is the new do-it-all superhero of the N-series, with a 5-megapixel camera, a load of music features and built-in GPS for finding your way home Mary Lojkine February 12, 2007 7:06 AM PST Nokia has announced a new 'hero product' for the N-series, the N95 (pictured right, click for a larger image). Following on from the camera-centric N90, the music-oriented N91 and the camcorder-ish N93, the N95 swaggers on to the stage doing everything they already do, and more. It's a tick-the-boxes, line-up-the-bullet-points, count-the-features-on-your-fingers kind of phone, although Nokia would prefer you to call it an "all-in-one multimedia computer". Perhaps the marketing department thinks you'll find it hard to stomach paying £350-400 (SIM-free) for a phone. Pretentiousness aside, the N95 offers an impressive range of features: • Despite being a relative newcomer in the slider-phone market, Nokia has come up with a new trick: two-way sliding. Push the screen up and you get a numeric keypad, as usual; push it down and a set of media keys appears at the top. These are designed to be used with the phone in landscape mode. • There's a 5-megapixel camera on the back, with a Carl Zeiss lens, auto focus and (unlike the similar-looking N80) a lens cover. You can view your photos and video clips on a compatible television using the TV-out feature. • Music lovers get FM radio, an MP3 player, expandable storage using microSD memory cards, stereo speakers, a standard 3.5mm audio jack, support for A2DP (stereo Bluetooth) and a mini-USB port for easy file transfers. • The N95 is the first N-series phone with integrated GPS. It comes with maps for over 100 countries and details of over 15 million points of interest, so you can use your phone (sorry, multimedia computer) to find your way around. • On the connectivity front, it supports everything from high-tech HSDPA and Wi-Fi for high-speed Internet access to humble infrared for communicating with old-school handhelds and laptops. Nokia says the N95 should go on sale in the first quarter of 2007. If you can't wait until then, it has also announced upgrades to three of the existing N-series phones. The N70 Music Edition is a black version of the N70 with up to 1GB of memory; the N73 Music Edition is a black N73 with up to 2GB of memory; and the N91 8GB is a black N91 with an 8GB hard drive. The first two should go on sale in October, and the upgraded N91 by the end of the year. For more pics of the N95, check out our photo story. -ML Comments Phones Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Nokia N95: And the band played on... Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.