https://www.cnet.com/news/notebooks-and-servers-continue-to-lift-hp-earnings/
Notebooks and servers continue to lift HP earnings - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Notebooks and servers continue to lift HP earnings Hewlett-Packard closes out the year with strong growth, helped by increased sales in China and other emerging nations. Erica Ogg November 19, 2007 3:07 PM PST Emerging nations are buying notebooks by the bundle, and Hewlett-Packard is reaping the benefits. HP reported its fourth-quarter earnings Monday, and revenues were up across its business units, but the PC business was again the star. Revenue for the Personal Systems Group, which sells desktops and notebook PCs, was up 30 percent from the same quarter a year ago to $10.1 billion. It's the first time the business unit has crossed the $10 billion threshold. Shipments of PCs rose about one-third in the last year. But HP is claiming success for its revenue and sales growth all for itself. Demand for Microsoft Windows Vista had nothing to do with the high growth numbers in PCs this year, said HP CEO Mark Hurd. There was "never a Vista moment at any time over the past year," he said on a media conference call. "There was no Vista hold back, so there was no Vista positive inflection point." Overall, HP reported $28.3 billion in revenue, an increase of 15 percent from the same quarter a year ago, and earnings of 81 cents per share. The company also reported that the board of directors had approved $8 billion to be used for future share repurchases. The world's No. 1 PC maker has turned in a string of highly successful quarters since surpassing rival Dell in market share more than a year ago. HP has taken advantage of the explosion of first-time PC buyers in emerging nations like Brazil, Russia, India, and China. Those regions now account for 9 percent of the company's revenue. On the earnings conference call, Hurd noted that HP now sells its products in 400 Chinese cities, with more planned in the future. Blade servers also saw high growth, with an increase of 78 percent in revenue in the last year. The Imaging and Printing Group, the business unit that sells cameras and printing hardware, saw the weakest growth, turning in flat profits and 4 percent growth to $7.6 billion in the last year. Notably, consumer hardware sales declined 5 percent. Last week, HP announced it is changing its camera business model and wants to partner with someone else to manufacture its cameras. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Notebooks and servers continue to lift HP earnings Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.