https://www.cnet.com/news/how-to-set-a-tv-up-by-eye/
How to set a TV up by eye - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In How to set a TV up by eye Sometimes you don't have access to a setup disc but want to do a rough setup using the tools in your head. This guide should help you get a TV watchable. Geoffrey Morrison December 15, 2013 11:40 AM PST Leer en español Now playing: Watch this: Calibrate your TV by eye 3:33 The image on the left is correct. The image on the right is a simulation of what the same image would look like with the Contrast control set too high. Notice how the clouds lack all detail and are merely white blobs. Geoffrey Morrison for original image and modification Let's say you're at your father-in-law's house and he just got a new TV. You're stuck in a corner, having recommended the TV, and you're the only person who knows contrast from composite. What to do? In an ideal world you'd have a setup disc on hand to set it up for him. Better yet, you'd have the number of a local calibrator instantly available and pop-in-law is willing to spring for a full calibration. But that's not always possible. Here are a few tips that will help you get the picture settings on his TV close to ideal -- or at least closer than it was. Check out my primer on HDTV settings to make sure you're caught up on all the jargon. Also, hopefully your computer monitor is reasonably well set up, or my images aren't going to look right. This guy has a bunch of patterns to make sure your monitor is correct. The first place to start with your TV cal challenge is select a picture mode you think the TV owner will like. Sure, Movie or Cinema mode are the most accurate, but has this person ever seen an accurate TV? If not, he's probably not going to like the accurate color temperature and colors of those modes. It might be worth a few minutes to extol the virtues of accurate colors and color temperature, but know it will likely be an uphill battle. Personal preference at this point, then. Check out What's the best picture mode? for more info one what the modes do. With any of the tricks below, it is best to check them on multiple pieces of content, as there is no way to be sure that any one clip is actually correct. For example, a show like "Grey's Anatomy" has a softly lit look to it that isn't typical. Many reality shows, on the other hand, have hyper-exaggerated colors that may lead to setting the Color control too low. Each "CSI" show has a decided color shift, and shouldn't be used, either. To set Contrast, you'll need something with a lot of bright areas of the image. Baseball works pretty well for this -- a fly ball, pop fly, home runs, something with shots of the sky -- or skiing (depending on season, clearly). What you're aiming for is a bright image, but still with highlight detail. In other words, the bright areas of the image still have detail, and aren't just awash in white. Turn the Contrast control up until you start losing detail. Clouds will cease being clouds, snow will just be glare. Now turn the control back down till you see detail again. Somewhere in this range will be ideal. Check out the clouds in the right image at the top of this article. This is what bad looks like. To set Brightness, you're looking for the opposite from contrast. Dark movies, like "Aliens" or "The Dark Knight" are perfect for this. Turn the Brightness control down until everything disappears into blackness (or something close). It should be readily apparent what this control does. The image on the top is correct. The image on the bottom is a simulation of what the same image would look like with the Brightness control set too low. Notice how all detail in the stones is gone. Admittedly, this may make the photo a bit cooler, it isn't how you want your TV setup. Geoffrey Morrison for original image and modification Turn it back up so you can see detail in everything, but the image doesn't look washed out. Another test for this is a darker scene with someone with long hair. The underside of their hair (I don't know what you people with hair call it) away from the light can be a good place to spot shadow detail. Also, dark coats at night. The TV show "Castle" does this sometimes, with dark jackets at night at a crime scene. Related stories LED LCD vs. plasma vs. LCD Active 3D vs. passive 3D: What's better? Five tips for a better HDTV picture Why all HDMI cables are the same 1080i and 1080p are the same resolution TV tech explainer: Every HDTV technology decoded Have no doubt, this is the hardest control to eyeball. It's rarely going to look absolutely correct, and worse it may look OK on some content and not on others.You'll spend more time getting this setting right than all the others combined. Generally, the Color control will be reasonably close to correct out of the box, especially in Cinema/Movie mode (if you've gone that route). With most TVs I review, I rarely move this control much, but I'm using the most accurate picture mode, so YMMV. Leave the Tint control where it is. It is likely correct, and without test patterns you can't really set it. The Sharpness control is going to lead to a debate. The accurate setting for this is going to be at or near the bottom of its range. This will result in a softer-looking image that actually has more fine detail. The image on the top is correct. The image on the bottom is a simulation of what the same image would look like with the Sharpness control set too high. Notice the hyper-defined edges, and the white outline to the arch. This is edge enhancement, and is masking fine detail (not that you can tell from this 610-pixel-wide image, but trust me). Geoffrey Morrison for original image and modification Set it low, but not so low as you lose detail, and see how the TV's owner likes it. Tell him what you did, though, and that after a day or so, he'll like it way more than if the Sharpness control was set higher. I use fine details like wrinkles or hair for this. Check out the image above for what edge enhancement looks like. If the TV is an LCD, it should have a Backlight control. The best thing you can do here is show the owner where the control is, and leave it around 80 percent. This will be plenty bright for most viewing, but tell them they can increase it if they need to, or turn it down further for better black levels and lower energy consumption. Check out Contrast ratio (or how every TV manufacturer lies to you) and LED LCD backlights explained for more info on this. As mentioned above, Color Temperature is a difficult one. Yes, the Warm mode is likely the most accurate, but if someone isn't used to an accurate picture, it's going to look really red. If available, try a middle mode (Normal, Standard). Or just let them set it. Check out my article on color temp and why it matters for more info. That should do it, or at least as close as you can get it. Recommend a setup disc, bow, then run like hell. Don't just assume that you can give a gift of calibration, though, as some people don't take too kindly to it. Lastly, make sure they have their HD equipment hooked up with HDMI cables. If not, this could be an easy way to vastly improve their image. It shouldn't cost more than $20 or so for all the HDMI cables you need. Check out my article on why cheap HDMI cables are perfect. Got a question for Geoff? First, check out all the other articles he's written on topics like HDMI cables, LED LCD vs. plasma, active versus passive 3D, and more. Still have a question? Send him an e-mail! He won't tell you what TV to buy, but he might use your letter in a future article. You can also send him a message on Twitter @TechWriterGeoff or Google+. Comments Home Entertainment TVs HDMI Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: How to set a TV up by eye Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.