https://www.cnet.com/news/apple-earnings-soar-1-4-million-iphones-sold-to-date/
Apple earnings soar, 1.4 million iPhones sold to date - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Apple earnings soar, 1.4 million iPhones sold to date As expected, it was another great quarter for Apple, with Mac shipments leading the way as the company sold more than a million iPhones. Tom Krazit October 22, 2007 5:04 PM PDT UPDATED 3:42 p.m.--Added a few more details, numbers, and statements from Apple executives from the conference call. Apple reported another stellar quarter Monday, exceeding estimates in just about every facet of its business. For the company's fourth fiscal quarter, which ended September 29, the company reported revenue of $6.22 billion and profit of $904 million, or $1.01 in earnings per share. Wall Street analysts had expected Apple to report revenue of $6.1 billion and earnings per share of 86 cents, according to estimates compiled by Thomson Financial. Apple has now sold 1.39 million iPhones, and 1.1 million during the quarter, the company reported. Mac shipments were up 34 percent compared to last year, and iPod shipments were up 17 percent. That iPhone price cut, however controversial among the early adopters, seemed to do the trick. As of September 10, Apple said it had sold 1 million iPhones in total. So after the price was cut from $599 to $399, and the $499 4GB iPhone disappeared, Apple sold almost 400,000 iPhones in 18 days, or more than a quarter of all the iPhones sold to date. Tim Cook, Apple's chief operating officer, confirmed the company expects to sell 10 million iPhones in the calendar year of 2008, but he didn't set a target for iPhones sales during the holiday quarter. It took Apple 2 years to sell around 1.4 million iPods sales in the early days of that product, he said. It's also clear that Apple is gaining share on the rest of the PC industry. Last week IDC and Gartner had the worldwide PC market growing at around 15 percent, while Mac shipments are growing more than twice as fast. Apple sold 2.1 million Macs during the quarter, a company record and 400,000 units better than its previous best. Students helped account for the surge in Mac shipments, during a quarter that Cook called "the most successful back-to-school season we've ever had." Apple introduced new iMacs in August, but it also ran a promotion for students that bundled a free iPod along with the sale of a new notebook. That might have had something to do with the fact that iPod shipments were actually lower than some Wall Street analysts had anticipated. Shaw Wu of American Technology Research had expected Apple to sell 11 million iPods, but the company shipped a total of 10.2 million units. That was actually right in line, however, with a prediction from Piper Jaffray's Gene Munster, who cited an average analyst estimate of 10.9 million units. Going into the holiday season, Apple expects to record $9.2 billion in revenue and earnings per share of $1.42, the company said. That's higher than what financial analysts were expecting for Apple's first fiscal quarter, a twist for a company that usually provides conservative guidance. The holiday quarter is usually huge for the iPod division; last year Apple sold 21 million iPods during its first fiscal quarter. And the new iPods that were introduced during in September didn't really have much time to make an impact on the results announced Monday. Mac shipments are usually flat during the company's first fiscal quarter compared to the back-to-school totals as educational buyers drop off and holiday buying kicks in, said Apple CFO Peter Oppenheimer. When asked to look ahead to the current quarter, he seemed somewhat pessimistic that Apple could duplicate the amazing growth it showed during its fourth quarter. Cook, however, noted that Apple saw strong growth in Europe during the past quarter. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Apple earnings soar, 1.4 million iPhones sold to date Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.