https://www.cnet.com/news/audioengines-nifty-199-desktop-amplifier/
Audioengine's nifty $199 desktop amplifier - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Audioengine's nifty $199 desktop amplifier Audioengine's cute little N22 power amplifier is a surefire way to improve your desktop sound system. Steve Guttenberg November 17, 2010 8:22 AM PST The Audioengine N22 Audioengine Audioengine's spectacularly good A2 has been my powered speaker reference for years. I recently enthused about Audioengine's slightly larger passive P4 speaker ($249/pair) that need to be powered by a separate amp. I was surprised that Audioengine didn't introduce an amp when they brought out the P4, but now with the N22 ($199), the time has come. It's an unobtrusive, vertically oriented design--7 inches high, 2.75 inches wide, and 5.5 inches deep--and it weighs 3.5 pounds. The clean front panel has just a volume control and a 3.5mm headphone jack; the rear end has stereo RCA inputs and subwoofer outputs; metal speaker wire binding posts; and a USB port for charging portable devices. The N22 accepts analog signals only. The medium-density fiberboard wood cabinet is finished in satin black, and the amp has a separate power supply. The digital amp puts out 22 watts per channel; that's about right for the P4 speakers. The sound was nowhere as warm and sweet as the A2, but it was considerably more detailed and lively. At first I missed the A2s easygoing nature, but I quickly came to appreciate the N22/P4's superior resolution, dynamic drive, and improved bass definition. The P4's bass is fine, but its 4-inch Kevlar cone woofers aren't exactly the last word in punch or power. So I hooked up my PSB Alpha B speakers, and its 5.25-inch woofers uncorked a more satisfying low-end experience. But the 11-inch-high PSBs are a little too big for my desktop, so I brought the P4s back. I thought I'd never retire the A2s, but now that I've grown accustomed to the N22/P4's detail and clarity, there's no going back. It's a winning combination, but I'm sure most small speakers would be fine with the N22. I plugged a pair of Sennheiser HD-598 headphones (review to come) into the N22, and came away pretty impressed by what I heard. The sound was extremely open and pure, so the N22's headphone sound is another reason to consider this little amp. The N22's headphone amp is decent enough, but the Schiit Audio Asgard dedicated headphone amp ($249) was noticeably more transparent-sounding. You can purchase the N22 direct from Audioengine's online store, and the $199 price includes FedEx delivery. The amp is sold with a 30-day return guarantee. Comments The Audiophiliac Audio Culture Sennheiser Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Audioengine's nifty $199 desktop amplifier Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.