https://www.cnet.com/news/
Technology News - CNET News - CNET COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Lawmakers press Amazon to do more to protect workers Lawmakers press Amazon to do more to protect workers Also, employees at more US warehouses have tested positive for the virus, with 14 facilities affected. Pandemic brings back people who ran away from Facebook Pandemic brings back people who ran away from Facebook #DeleteFacebook goes out the door when you're social distancing. Facebook: More people are watching live videos Coronavirus pandemic makes April Fools' a thorny internet tradition Coronavirus pandemic makes April Fools' a thorny internet tradition Google, whose April Fools' shenanigans are famous in the tech world, said it's canceling its pranks this year. More top stories Coronavirus updates: US cases top 100,000, Trump signs $2 trillion stimulus package Plus: UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson tests positive and the US now has the most cases worldwide. by Corinne Reichert, Jackson Ryan FDA: At-home coronavirus tests are unauthorized, fraudulent The US now has more coronavirus cases than China Google pledges $800 million to coronavirus relief, mostly in free ads by Richard Nieva Coronavirus stimulus check: Find out if you're eligible for up to $1,200 by Clifford Colby Brightening comet Atlas could soon lift your gaze and spirits just a little by Eric Mack Money Heist is what you should be watching right now -- here's why by Patricia Puentes Lyft partners with Amazon on package and grocery deliveries by Dara Kerr $2 trillion coronavirus relief package gives benefits to gig workers by Dara Kerr Mark Zuckerberg's Chan Zuckerberg Initiative to give $25 million to fight COVID-19 by Eli Blumenthal Apple creates coronavirus screening app, site with CDC and White House by Carrie Mihalcik Coronavirus turns phone launches into surreal experiences Commentary: COVID-19 precautions have derailed mostly daily activities, except for phone launches. by Katie Collins The Latest 21minutes ago Coronavirus updates: US cases top 100,000, Trump signs $2 trillion stimulus package Plus: UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson tests positive and President Trump invokes Defense Production Act to force GM to make ventilators. Sci-Tech By Corinne Reichert 26minutes ago Every live concert and band you can stream on March 27 from your home Watch Elvis Costello, Diplo, Tinashe, Daft Punk, Melissa Etheridge, Miley Cyrus, Questlove and more live music while social distancing. #couchtour Music By Amy Sheridan 27minutes ago See the emptiness as coronavirus closes landmarks, stadiums, amusement parks Disneyland. The Trevi Fountain. Parliament in Spain. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, these spaces sit largely abandoned. Culture By Leslie Gornstein 42minutes ago April Fools' Day jokes risk becoming tone deaf amidst coronavirus Google, whose April Fools' shenanigans are famous in the tech world, said it's canceling its pranks this year. Tech Industry By Richard Nieva 45minutes ago Coronavirus in pictures: Scenes from around the world Countries lock down as the race for a cure continues. From the US to Italy, Pakistan to Belgium, the world reacts to a pandemic. Sci-Tech By CNET News staff 45minutes ago Get your free download of Monument Valley 2 and 10 other iOS games this weekend Check out these free games in the App Store for a limited time. Mobile By Shelby Brown 1hour ago Lyft partners with Amazon on package and grocery deliveries With ridership plummeting, Lyft is looking to diversify its offerings. Mobile By Dara Kerr 1hour ago Money Heist is what you should be watching right now -- here's why The hit Netflix show will keep you hooked, make you laugh and even teach you some Spanish. TV and Movies By Patricia Puentes 2hours ago Get Arctis Pro Wireless premium gaming headphones for $220 Anyone can save 33% on one of the best wireless headphone models ever in the SteelSeries annual member-only sale (because it's easy to become a member). Headphones By Dave Johnson 3hours ago Astronauts could use their own pee to build future moon habitats Scientists mix urea from urine with a moon soil substitute to make surprisingly sturdy 3D-printed structures. Sci-Tech By Amanda Kooser 3hours ago Coronavirus cancellations and delays: Tokyo Olympics, Disney and more Movies, music festivals, tech conferences and sports leagues: Here's what has been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Culture By Kent German 3hours ago Google pledges $800 million to coronavirus relief, mostly in free ads The search giant will also help a supply chain partner ramp up production of 2 to 3 million face masks. Tech Industry By Richard Nieva 3hours ago Coronavirus and motorsport: Every major event impacted by COVID-19 From Formula One, NASCAR, IndyCar and more, we round up all the rescheduled dates and cancellations. Car Culture By Sean Szymkowski 3hours ago Pack your drone for adventure in this Lowepro backpack that's 83% off Regularly $105, Adorama is selling this backpack for the DJI Phantom for just $18, which may prompt you to wonder what other drones will fit. Drones By Dave Johnson 3hours ago Dwight Shrute and Rick Sanchez have coronavirus quarantine advice for you A creative mashup video creatively strings together clips from The Office, Rick and Morty and more to remind us to wash our hands and stay home. TV and Movies By Bonnie Burton Show More CNET News Special Reports Road Trip: Troublemakers & Trailblazers The CNET team travels the world to hear firsthand from the people creating our future. [Redacted] CNET takes a closer look at how online censorship affects people around the world. Tech in the 2010s Take a look back at what's worth remembering from the last 10 years. 5G: Your Next Big Upgrade The next generation of cellular technology has arrived. Your Face, Your Password The benefits and pitfalls of facial recognition are coming into focus. To the Moon The space race, NASA's moon landings and our future on the moon. Fixing Fukushima Tech plays a key role in cleaning up the worst nuclear disaster in history. CNET Magazine Check out a sampling of the stories you'll find in CNET's newsstand edition. Tech Enabled CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility. Fight the Power Take a look at who's transforming the way we think about energy. Follow the Money This is how digital cash is changing the way we save, shop and work. Blockchain Decoded A look at the tech powering bitcoin -- and soon myriad services that will change your life. Turned On From Realdoll sexbots to connected toys, CNET explores the intersection of sex and technology. Intolerance on the Internet Online abuse is as old as the internet and it's only getting worse. It exacts a very real toll. Solving for XX The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech." Popular Topics Apple Audio Cameras CNET @ Work CNET Magazine Comics Computers Culture Digital media Drones Entertainment Facebook Gadgets Google Internet Internet services Microsoft Music Online Phones Politics Random Sci-tech Security Smart homes Special features Sports Sports and outdoors Stock market Tech industry Toys and games TVs TV and movies VR apps Wearable tech New on CBS Interactive Customize Featured Reviews Samsung Galaxy S20 5G The best new Samsung phone for your money $999.99 Apple iPhone 11 The best $700 iPhone Apple's ever made $699.00 Google Nest Hub Still the smart display to beat $89.99 2020 Toyota 4Runner The old dog gets a few new tricks MSRP $36,120.00 Oculus Quest The best thing I've tried this year. $399.00 English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.