https://www.cnet.com/news/best-prepaid-phones-of-2019/
Best prepaid phones of 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best prepaid phones of 2020 What are the best prepaid phones right now? Hand-picked by CNET editors, this is our line-up of some of the most outstanding. Lynn La February 13, 2020 2:18 PM PST Best midtier iPhone Apple iPhone 11 Jump to details $699 at Apple Most premium Android for your money Samsung Galaxy Note 10 Plus Jump to details $950 at Walmart Best Android value of 2020 OnePlus 7T Jump to details $599 at OnePlus Little, mighty and worth every penny Samsung Galaxy S10E Jump to details $450 at Best Buy Cheaper Pixel 3 with same great camera Google Pixel 3A Jump to details $300 at Walmart Best budget smartphone gets better Motorola Moto G7 Jump to details $299 at Walmart Show more (1 items) From 5G connectivity to foldable screens, smartphone companies are innovating faster than ever to capitalize on many carriers' unlimited data usage, unlimited talk and unlimited text service offerings. While Samsung's Galaxy line and Apple's iPhone are many people's top smartphone choice, there are other cell phone-makers gunning for their place with fantastic handsets of their own. Android phones with facial recognition, cell phones with extended battery life and an increasing array of camera options make for greater competition, and all of it benefits us users, who now have many excellent phones to choose from, at a wide range of prices and plans -- data and otherwise. This includes unlocked cell phones and prepaid plans, where you pay for your data (prepaid unlimited data or other data service plans) and text messages / phone calls upfront, rather than with a contract. Read on to see what the best prepaid phones are right now and check out our tips on how to buy a new phone. And for more information about prepaid carriers and service, read our comparison of best prepaid wireless plans: Verizon, AT&T, Sprint, Boost and more. Read more: Best phones of 2020 Best Android phones of 2020 Best phones under $500 Now playing: Watch this: What to look for when buying a phone 2:09 Best midtier iPhone Apple iPhone 11 Sarah Tew/CNET Starting at $699, the iPhone 11 is the best midtier cell model Apple has ever made. Its cameras get an excellent new Night Mode and an ultrawide-angle camera adds extra detail in photos. Video is fantastic, too. For more info, read: iPhone 11, Pro, Max: These are the cheapest carriers for Apple's pricey new phones. Read our Apple iPhone 11 review. $699 at Apple $700 at Best Buy $700 at Verizon Wireless Most premium Android for your money Samsung Galaxy Note 10 Plus Angela Lang/CNET The refined, feature-packed Note 10 Plus closes the gap with rival phones. This top-of-the-line smartphone was made for people who want the best Android. It has a killer 6.8-inch screen, an all-day battery and excellent camera tools. Read our Samsung Galaxy Note 10 Plus review. $950 at Walmart $950 at Best Buy $1,100 at Sprint Best Android value of 2020 OnePlus 7T Angela Lang/CNET Despite not having wireless charging or a headphone dongle in the box, the competitively priced OnePlus 7T is one of the first cell phones to come with Android 10. It also has three rear cameras that capture excellent photos, a lightning-quick processor and it has a smooth 90Hz display. It's available unlocked and on T-Mobile, but it also works on AT&T and Verizon's network. OnePlus' 7 Pro is also available unlocked from OnePlus. Read our OnePlus 7T review. $599 at OnePlus $600 at Adorama Little, mighty and worth every penny Samsung Galaxy S10E Angela Lang/CNET As the most wallet-friendly Galaxy S10 phone, the Galaxy S10E has a lot to offer. It's a smaller phone, which is great for those looking for a small grip, it has a superfast Snapdragon 855 chipset and a lengthy battery life. It can also wirelessly charge other phones and accessories. Read our Samsung Galaxy S10E review. $450 at Best Buy $750 at Sprint $600 at Verizon Wireless Cheaper Pixel 3 with same great camera Google Pixel 3A Angela Lang/CNET The Pixel 3A shaves a few features off of last year's Pixel 3: It's not water-resistant, doesn't have wireless charging, and it maxes out at 64GB of storage. But it adds a headphone jack and keeps the same amazing Night Sight camera that can shoot great photos in the dark. (Daytime photos look amazing, too.) It's because of its great value that the smartphone recently earned a CNET Editors' Choice. Read our Google Pixel 3A review. $300 at Walmart $300 at Best Buy $399 at Sprint Best budget smartphone gets better Motorola Moto G7 Angela Lang/CNET The Moto G7 is one of the most affordable and reliable phones. Though its single speaker doesn't offer the greatest sound, and it takes mediocre low-light photos and video, the G7 has dual rear cameras, an enduring battery and a sleek design. It also charges really quickly, which is useful when you need to juice up while on the go. Read our Motorola Moto G7 review. $299 at Walmart $300 at Best Buy $300 at B&H Photo-Video Originally published earlier this week. Comments Phones Google Lenovo Motorola Samsung Apple OnePlus Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Best prepaid phones of 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.