https://www.cnet.com/news/wonder-woman-lassos-new-director-patty-jenkins/
'Wonder Woman' lassos new director Patty Jenkins - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In 'Wonder Woman' lassos new director Patty Jenkins Michelle Maclaren is out and the "Monster" director is in, as another leading female director rules herself out for political reasons. Richard Trenholm April 16, 2015 3:15 AM PDT Gal Gadot is to play Wonder Woman in the forthcoming DC movies. Warner Bros. / DC Comics "Wonder Woman" has lassoed a new director. Patty Jenkins, director of "Monster", steps into the DC Comics adaptation just days after Michelle Maclaren bowed out. Created in 1941, DC Comics superhero Wonder Woman is an Amazon princess fighting bad guys in the world of men. The film will see Gal Gadot wield the lasso of truth and bullet-bouncing bracelets, with Scott Eastwood as the love interest. Every geek movie we're excited about in 2015 55 Photos In your satin tights, fighting for your rights Fascinating first Wonder Woman sketch going up for sale DC Comics unleashing Flash, Wonder Woman, ton of other films Lynda Carter's Wonder Woman pilots back in DC Digital Comic Angelina Jolie could direct 'Captain Marvel' Saluting 'Marvel's Agent Carter' and the sci-fi forties The film was originally slated to be the first big screen project helmed by Michelle MacLaren, best known for producing and directing TV shows including "The X-Files", "Breaking Bad", "The Walking Dead" and "Game of Thrones". She left the project just two days ago over "creative differences". Her replacement Patty Jenkins has directed TV shows including "Entourage", "Arrested Development" and the pilot of the US version of "The Killing". She was at one point set to direct "Thor: The Dark World" for DC's rival Marvel, but bowed out over more of those pesky creative differences. She's getting a second crack at a caped hero with the Wonder Woman movie, which is set to be released in June 2017. In an interesting side-twist to the tale, fans reacted to the news by calling on director Lexi Alexander to step in. With "Punisher: War Zone", Alexander became the first and only woman to have directed a major superhero movie -- in as much as the Punisher can be considered a superhero, anyway. However, Alexander immediately ruled herself out because she disagrees with Israeli star Gal Gadot's stance on the conflict between Israel and Palestine. She's pro-Israel I am for a Free Palestine, so it's understandably more complicated and she had the gig first. https://t.co/oyVdR3YRSL — Lexi Alexander (@Lexialex) April 14, 2015 The big screen Wonder Woman will make her first appearance next year when Gadot stands shoulder to shoulder with Ben Affleck and Henry Cavill in " Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice", directed by Zack Snyder. Look, up in the sky! Meet the lesser-known superheroes coming to your screens 18 Photos Comments Crave Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: 'Wonder Woman' lassos new director Patty Jenkins Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.