https://www.cnet.com/news/crave-talk-godless-software-hasnt-a-prayer/
Crave Talk: Godless software hasn't a prayer - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Crave Talk: Godless software hasn't a prayer How much hassle will it take to shake your faith in the Almighty Bill? Crave's Rupert Goodwins was so deeply scarred by his anti-virus experiences he became an Ubuntu Linux atheist Rupert Goodwins August 7, 2006 8:10 AM PDT It's not easy being a vicar. You've got to explain the mysterious ways of God to your even more mysterious parishioners, keep the roof on the church and the bishop off your back -- and now you have to survive attacks by your own anti-virus software. Last month, Symantec's Norton Anti-Virus declared that a parish planning software application was infected by nasties, and instructed clerics to delete the offending file. There was nothing wrong with the file. Anyone following Symantec's instructions disabled their software, which meant they had to talk to the publisher to find out how to reinstall it -- and how to ignore Norton's resumed bleatings. Eventually, Symantec was persuaded to fix the problem, but not until there'd been Biblical outpourings of misery. Chalk another chunk of unhappiness up to the anti-virus people. I loathe the stuff -- it's expensive, it slows down my computer, it causes its own security problems, it doesn't catch half the stuff it's supposed to and it gets in the way. And, like the publishers of the vicaring software, I end up doing tonnes of support for people who've been bitten by anti-virus products. They get the money, I get the hassle. How fair is that? There is an answer. Don't use it. If you keep your patches up to date and don't hang around dodgy sites, don't click on dodgy emails and don't hoover up warez, you'll be fine. And if you do those things, you'll get hit no matter how much protection you've got. You'd be better off throwing Windows out and getting a Mac. Or, you can do what I've done and be an adventurous cheapskate with Ubuntu Linux and an old laptop worth tuppence ha'penny. You can click on as many dodgy emails as you like and download as much Estonian dwarf erotica as you fancy -- although vicars are excused. But the best bit is saying to people with Windows problems, "sorry, I don't do that any more, so I can't help". If they take the hint and go open source, then you'll be back in the support role again, but this time nobody else will be paid for the job you're doing, because the entire community is based around mutual support. That feels better already. And there's absolutely nothing Symantec can do to extract one red nickel from you: there is no Ubuntu virus. Not one. If there ever is, then the community will fix the problem faster than it takes to pass the collection plate down the pew. And one day, the only windows in churches will be stained glass. Amen, brother. -Rupert Goodwins Comments Notification on Notification off Software Close Discuss: Crave Talk: Godless software hasn't a prayer Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.