https://www.cnet.com/news/white-house-asks-tech-companies-for-help-battling-coronavirus/
White House asks tech companies for help battling coronavirus - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In White House asks tech companies for help battling coronavirus Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Google, Microsoft and Twitter join a teleconference with top government officials. Sean Keane, Ian Sherr March 12, 2020 11:55 AM PDT Leer en español Listen - 02:46 Marguerite Reardon/CNET For the most up-to-date news and information about the coronavirus pandemic, visit the WHO website. The White House gathered representatives from major tech companies for a teleconference Wednesday on coordinating their response to the coronavirus outbreak. Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Google, Microsoft and Twitter participated, according to a White House press release. US Chief Technology Officer Michael Kratsios led the meeting, calling on the companies to leverage technological assets to help glean medical insight from a new database of scholarly coronavirus-related literature. Kratsios previewed the new database, which the White House said will be released in the coming days. "The White House's top priority is ensuring the safety and health of the American people amid the COVID-19 outbreak. Cutting edge technology companies and major online platforms will play a critical role in this all-hands-on-deck effort. Today's meeting outlined an initial path forward and we intend to continue this important conversation," Kratsios said in the release. CNET Coronavirus Update Get all the latest on the coronavirus that's now been declared a pandemic. The meeting, which the Washington Post said ran about two hours, included discussion about how to stop the spread of coronavirus conspiracy theories on social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter. A Google representative confirmed the company's participation. Among the participants named by the White House, neither Amazon, Apple, Cisco, Facebook, IBM, Microsoft, TechNet nor Twitter immediately responded to requests for comment. Coronavirus updates FDA warns at-home coronavirus tests are unauthorized and fraudulent Zoom has been a chaotic beacon of light during the coronavirus lockdown FBI says beware of stimulus-package scams Snowden says government surveillance amid COVID-19 could be long lasting Now playing: Watch this: Coronavirus and COVID-19: Everything you need to know 5:50 Tech companies have already been reacting to the outbreak by canceling conferences, taking steps to combat misinformation on their platforms and instructing employees to work from home. The new strain of coronavirus, which can develop into a respiratory illness known as COVID-19, was discovered in Wuhan, China, in December. It's now infected more than 120,000 people and caused more than 4,300 deaths globally. The US has more than 1,000 confirmed cases. Supply disruptions A Politico report suggested the White House meeting would likely focus on disinformation and misinformation. Companies like Apple and Amazon have also been hit by manufacturing and supply disruptions as a result of the virus outbreak. Apple, one of the most highly valued companies in the world, said in February that it expected reduced supplies of its iPhones, which will also likely lead to lower sales. Smartphone giant Samsung has also reportedly slowed production of some devices amid coronavirus outbreaks in its home country of South Korea. Companies like Apple, Google, Twitter and Facebook have also pledged to pay hourly workers affected by the virus. And Uber, Doordash and Postmates are considering financial payments to help drivers, according to The Wall Street Journal. Lyft said it plans to provide funds to drivers diagnosed with the coronavirus or put under quarantine by a public health agency. "This helps support drivers financially when they can't drive, while also protecting our riders' health," a Lyft spokeswoman said in a statement. President Donald Trump has said he wants to help workers impacted by the virus, to ensure they're "not going to miss a paycheck." Coronavirus in pictures: Scenes from around the world 63 Photos US Tech Policy See All • reading White House asks tech companies for help battling coronavirus • Feb 10 Ethiopia blames 737 Max design in interim crash report • Feb 8 US lawmakers propose a new, nationwide EV charging network in new bill • Feb 5 Trump's impeachment: Watch the Senate's vote live Wednesday Comments US Tech Policy Tech Industry Coronavirus Facebook Apple Notification on Notification off Cisco Close Discuss: White House asks tech companies for help battling coronavirus Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.