https://www.cnet.com/news/intels-otellini-has-company-focused-on-low-power/
Intel's Otellini has company focused on low power - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Intel's Otellini has company focused on low power The CEO of the world's largest chipmaker wants hardware developers thinking about graphics, low-power applications, and Intel's determination not to let AMD get the best of it again. Tom Krazit September 18, 2007 6:01 PM PDT With the next two generations of Intel's chips set in place, the company is looking forward to a low-power future. So said Intel CEO Paul Otellini in his keynote address kicking off the Intel Developer Forum at San Francisco's Moscone Center on Tuesday. Intel will launch the server and high-end desktop versions of its Penryn generation of chips on November 12, in line with previous reports to expect those chips before the Thanksgiving holiday. And Intel has also completed the design for Nehalem, a more radical overhaul of the company's chip blueprints. The more interesting news was Otellini's goals for Intel over the rest of the decade. The company plans to ship a generation of processors on its 45-nanometer manufacturing technology by 2009 that come with graphics integrated right onto the processor, similar to what rival Advanced Micro Devices has planned for its Fusion chips. Intel will be investing in a joint venture with KDDI, a Japanese telecom company, with plans to build a WiMax network in Japan. And as expected, Intel talked up its low-power chips for MIDs (Mobile Internet Devices), with plans to reduce the power consumption of its handheld computer chips by a factor of 10 compared with the Silverthorne processor, expected next year. This is all part of Intel's search for growth, which has meandered a bit this decade. Still, you've got to have a strategy for the future, especially as the PC market matures over the next five to 10 years. That appears to have three legs: first of all, don't squander the base market of PC and server processors. To accomplish that, Otellini has implemented a more gradual series of manufacturing transitions that makes sure the company doesn't try to introduce a new architecture with a new manufacturing technology, and that it doesn't go too long in between revisions to its chips. The hope is that this prevents AMD from catching it napping and losing significant chunks of market share, which is probably the best description of the years from 2002 to 2006. Intel CEO Paul Otellini addresses hardware developers and the media to kick off the 2007 Intel Developer Forum. Tom Krazit/CNET News.com The second is graphics. AMD is forcing Intel's hand a bit in this area, with its purchase of ATI Technologies last year and the resulting plans for Fusion. Intel ships more graphics technology than anybody else on the planet, but that's only because it ships so many low-cost integrated graphics chipsets in desktops and notebooks, not because that graphics technology is extremely compelling. But the company wants to improve its performance in that area, hiring engineers and purchasing companies like Havok to improve its hardware and software expertise in graphics technology. And in the long term, Intel will attack the graphics market by accelerating the pace at which it develops graphics technology by using its most advanced manufacturing processes. Historically, Intel's integrated graphics products used older manufacturing technology too antiquated for cutting-edge processors, but that's changing. In 2009 Intel will ship a processor that has 45nm graphics technology built onto the chip, and in 2010 it will introduce a chip for which both the CPU and the graphics technology were designed for the 32nm manufacturing technology slated for production during that timeframe, Otellini said. And for the high end of the market, and possibly the discrete graphics market currently owned by Nvidia and ATI, Intel will produce a processor called Larrabee with many configurable cores and a shared cache memory. Otellini said Intel will demonstrate Larabee in 2008, but didn't share launch plans. The third area of focus is mobility. Intel wants to be part of whatever design becomes the most popular mobile device. Having shed its ambitions for mobile phones, it now plans to compete directly against the smart phone industry with the MID, sort of a handheld notebook PC that hasn't really attracted much interest as of yet. In 2008 Intel will introduce Silverthorne, and beyond that an x86 processor called Moorestown for low-power devices like MIDs. There's no evidence at all that people want MIDs right now, but Otellini thinks that if Intel continues to reduce the power consumption of its chips, the designs and software for MIDs will continue to improve. Those devices will have to connect to the Internet somehow to compete against smart phones that use cellular networks for voice and data. And Intel thinks that network will be WiMax. The company is working with Sprint and Clearwire to get WiMax service going in the U.S., and it will hit Japan with WiMax as part of its joint venture with KDDI. So that's what Otellini said. As always, it's interesting to note what he didn't say. He didn't mention Microsoft once during his presentation, at least that I noticed. He didn't mention Viiv or any of Intel's previous efforts to develop PCs for the living room. And Itanium seems to have finally crawled offstage, at least as far as the CEO is concerned. Keynote speeches later today from Pat Gelsinger and tomorrow from Dadi Perlmutter and Anand Chandrasekher might clear up some of those questions, but it's always interesting to see what the CEO's priorities are during one of his biggest speeches of the year. Stay tuned for more coverage of IDF, including a talk later today with Intel co-founder Gordon Moore, and much more on the future of mobile devices tomorrow. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Intel's Otellini has company focused on low power Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.