https://www.cnet.com/news/t-mobile-ceo-promises-improved-network-coverage-for-iphone-6s-and-6-plus/
T-Mobile CEO guarantees better coverage with iPhone 6S, 6S Plus - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In T-Mobile CEO guarantees better coverage with iPhone 6S, 6S Plus The carrier is shaking things up again with a program that lets customers using the latest smartphones easily cancel their T-Mobile service if they can't get a signal wherever they are. Marguerite Reardon September 10, 2015 6:14 PM PDT T-Mobile CEO John Legere guarantees improved network coverage for customers with the latest iPhones. CNET T-Mobile is telling Apple fans their new iPhone 6S or 6S Plus will get better 4G coverage than ever on the carrier's network. Guaranteed. The company is so confident people using the latest smartphones will be pleased with its network, it's announced a program that lets customers painlessly cancel service if unsatisfied. Apple's just-unveiled iPhones, along with other new devices such as Samsung's Galaxy S6, include support for radio frequencies that T-Mobile now uses on its 4G LTE network. These low-band frequencies extend the carrier's signal over greater distances and improve in-building coverage. So the company is convinced its customers will no longer be plagued by slow or spotty 4G service, and it's offering a Lifetime Coverage Guarantee for as long as they use these new phones on its network. The offer is a signal to the wireless industry that the carrier's network is finally on par with those of rivals AT&T and Verizon, in terms of both download speeds and coverage. For more than two years, T-Mobile has been shaking up the industry, offering no-interest device financing, early upgrade programs and free international data, and eliminating service contracts. But the company has had one big weakness compared with its two largest competitors: Its network. T-Mobile has worked quickly to close the gap, and Apple's 6S and 6S Plus are the first iPhones that can take advantage of the carrier's upgraded 4G LTE network. "If you haven't tried our network lately," T-Mobile CEO John Legere said in a blog post Thursday, "you seriously haven't tried it." Legere said Apple's latest iPhones can tap into T-Mobile's upgrades and offer customers "a totally new experience with iPhone 6S and 6S Plus on T-Mobile." T-Mobile has expanded the reach of its network using low-frequency spectrum. T-Mobile T-Mobile promises that if at any time within 30 days of signing up a customer decides to go to another carrier, it will reimburse them for any service costs already generated and completely refund the phone price. After the 30-day window, it will unlock the customer's phone so it can be used with another carrier, while still letting that person pay off the device in no-interest monthly installments, and refunding that current month's service costs. Legere said the deal is an extension of T-Mobile's Test Drive program, which lets customers try a new device for a week before signing up for service. The new deal is an improvement over the standard 14-day return policy offered by T-Mobile and other carriers. It also eliminates a restocking fee for a returned device. The program is available to new or existing Simple Choice customers who sign up for the Jump On Demand early upgrade program. Eligible devices are those that support what T-Mobile calls "Extended Range LTE," a fancy marketing term for the 700MHz frequency on LTE Band 12. Simply put, such devices can take advantage of the low-frequency spectrum T-Mobile used to build its 4G LTE network. The new iPhones are the first Apple handsets to support LTE Band 12, but the new Samsung Galaxy S6 and the latest Galaxy Note also support it, and it's likely any devices hitting the market from now on will do so too. Traditionally, T-Mobile has lacked the type of low-frequency spectrum, or licensed radio airwaves, that can carry signals over longer distances and penetrate through obstacles more easily. Instead, it's built much of its 3G and 4G data networks using higher-frequency spectrum that offers more capacity over shorter distances. Thus its coverage has largely been limited to dense urban markets, and its signals have been weak or nonexistent indoors for some customers. Since its failed merger with AT&T in 2011, T-Mobile has been acquiring low-frequency spectrum and using it to extend the reach of its wireless network. "We have been rolling out truckloads of new spectrum that carries our LTE signal twice as far from our towers, for a massive coverage expansion, and that works four times better in buildings," Legere said in his blog post. He said the new spectrum is available in 170 markets and covers more than half the US population. Legere said T-Mobile will cover more than 350 markets within three months. Comments Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: T-Mobile CEO guarantees better coverage with iPhone 6S, 6S Plus Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.