https://www.cnet.com/news/nokia-3310-android-nostalgia-trap-avoiding-getting-stuck-in-the-past/
Nokia 3310 phone is back. And yes, it comes with Snake - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Nokia's nostalgia trap: The hot old-is-new-again 3310 With the 3310, Finnish startup HMD got a stunt to get people to notice its Nokia comeback story. Now comes the hard part. Roger Cheng February 27, 2017 5:00 AM PST The throwback Nokia 3310 was the highlight of the HMD presentation for new Nokia phones. Andrew Hoyle/CNET The good news: The throwback Nokia 3310 candy bar phone is one of the most buzzed-about items at the Mobile World Congress trade show. The bad news: The throwback Nokia 3310 -- and not the new Nokia phones -- is one of the most buzzed-about items at the show. The Nokia 3310, which originally launched at the turn of the millennium, is the latest attempt to tug at our heartstrings, part of a broader trend bringing back iconic shows and products from our youth. The miniaturized Nintendo Classic was a hard-to-find item during the holidays, and '80s stalwarts "Full House" and "Voltron" are both enjoying a revival with new episodes on Netflix. It's no coincidence that following the press conference held by HMD, the Finnish startup building Nokia phones, people made a beeline for the table with the 3310 phones. Now playing: Watch this: The Nokia 3310 is back and so is Snake 1:17 It's an effective way to get people talking about your products at a crowded trade show like Mobile World Congress, which this year featured attention-grabbers like LG's newest flagship phone and a supposed "Gigabit Phone" from ZTE. And for HMD, which was founded and staffed by many former Nokia executives, attention is a valuable commodity. "The frenzy of nostalgia around the updated 3310 will deliver some much-needed consumer awareness that Nokia-branded devices are back on the shelves," said Ben Wood, an analyst at CCS Insight. But here's the rub: Relying too much on that storied name and the novelty factor of a phone that's nearly two decades old (even if the company did update its look) bring their own issues: They threaten to overshadow what you're doing today. "They have a juggling act," said IHS analyst Ian Fogg. "How does HMD leverage the old brand and at the same time do brand-new things?" Juho Sarvikas, chief product officer of HMD, isn't concerned that the Nokia brand might get relegated to a novelty item and believes the new 3310 will give the startup a chance to do "some fun things on social media." Why not? It's clear HMD put some thought into the new 3310, which has more rounded curves and new bright colors but retains much of the DNA of the original candy bar phone. "We thought, what the heck, let's do it," HMD CEO Arto Nummela said during an interview in a small hotel room off the main Las Ramblas drag in Barcelona on Saturday. "We wanted to have fun with it." Get a close look at the rebooted Nokia 3310 17 Photos The 49 euro ($51.75) 3310 boasts 22 hours of talk time and a month of standby time, 10 times the original's capabilities. Yes, it comes with Gameloft's updated version of the original Snake game, as well as the iconic Nokia ringtone. While conventional logic would argue that the people who have a fondness for this phone would be the least likely to buy it -- most of us have moved on to slightly more sophisticated devices -- HMD believes the 3310 could win the company new Nokia fans in emerging markets, where basic phones are still common. Sarvikas said it could also work as a secondary "digital detox" phone you use while on vacation. It's much harder for your boss to reach you over the weekend if your phone can't get e-mail. (The boss could call you, but who does that any more?) What's in a name? HMD's ambitious revival of Nokia will serve as a test of how much influence the brand still holds over consumers. If China is any indication, HMD has reason to be optimistic. When the company launched the Nokia 6 there last month, 1.3 million people registered for the product in the first four days. Related stories CNET's Mobile World Congress coverage Where's the Nokia phone we're craving? A cheeky rebadging means you can soon buy a Nokia smartwatch Everything Nokia announced at its MWC press conference Surprisingly, most of them weren't old Nokia diehards. Nummela said that 74 percent of the people who signed up were 30 or younger -- people who potentially never owned a Nokia phone before. HMD is starting with midrange to low-end pricing (the phones range from 139 euros, or $147, to 299 euros, or $316) because it sees that segment as the biggest opportunity to make waves. The thinking is that in a sea of me-too budget phones, you're more likely to choose the one with a brand you recognize. The company doesn't think it's just tapping into a brand's former sway over consumers. TCL, which is similarly trying to revive the once-beloved BlackBerry brand, believes it's important to move forward with that name. "I don't use the word 'nostalgia' as I use the word 'legacy'," Steve Cistulli, head of TCL's North American business, said in an interview on Saturday. "When you take that legacy and move it forward, that's where we have a lot of the passion ingrained." HMD takes a similar tack. "We're more relying on attributes and a similar philosophical approach," Nummela said. "It's less about doing something that already existed." CNET's Katie Collins contributed to this story. Mobile World Congress 2020 See All • reading Nokia's nostalgia trap: The hot old-is-new-again 3310 • Mar 12 I got a peek at what your 5G-enabled AR home office could look like • Feb 27 LG's V60 ThinQ phone sees double in blue and white • Feb 26 Hands-on LG V60 ThinQ: 5G with 8K video and dual-screen • Feb 25 New details on Qualcomm's 5G VR prototypes: Cloud rendering, eye tracking, high-res displays Comments Mobile World Congress 2020 Mobile BlackBerry Alcatel OneTouch Notification on Notification off Nokia Close Discuss: Nokia's nostalgia trap: The hot old-is-new-again 3310 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.