https://www.cnet.com/news/sonos-lays-out-terms-for-voice-control-ahead-of-alexa-skill/
Sonos hints that Amazon Alexa voice controls are coming very soon - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Sonos lays out terms for voice control ahead of Alexa skill An upcoming update to the Sonos privacy statement makes it sound like the long-awaited integration with Amazon's Alexa is getting closer to arrival. Ry Crist August 16, 2017 2:29 PM PDT Chris Monroe/CNET Almost exactly one year ago, Sonos announced that its popular line of high-end, connected speakers would be getting Alexa-powered voice controls in 2017. Now, it appears that the time has just about come. Enlarge Image You'll soon be able to control Sonos speakers like the Play:5 using Alexa voice commands. Sarah Tew/CNET The giveaway is an upcoming update to the Sonos privacy statement, the details of which are outlined in a soon-to-be-published company blog post shared with CNET. In a section labeled "What Sonos hears, records, and keeps," the company writes: "You'll notice that we've added a section on what it means if you choose to enable a voice assistant to control your Sonos system when that becomes available in your country. It's no secret that we've been working on this for some time, and we want to make sure we're preparing you well in advance of this addition. "Sonos does not keep recordings of your voice data," the section adds. "It goes to the voice assistant service (for example, Amazon) that you've activated on your Sonos system." That lines up with everything we expect from the long-awaited integration, which will allow you to cue up music on your Sonos speakers using voice commands with an Alexa-enabled device like the Amazon Echo or Echo Dot. You will be able to specify which Sonos speaker you'd like to use by assigning each one to a room, then saying something like, "Alexa, play the Rolling Stones in the living room." You'll also be able to ask Alexa to raise or lower the volume, skip tracks, or tell you what song is playing. An integration with Alexa is likely just the starting point as far as voice-activated Sonos playback goes. At an event in Boston back in February, Sonos CEO Patrick Spence said that the company is "engaged with every major voice player out there today," and that it wants to treat voice control with broad support. That means that Siri and the Google Assistant could potentially be up next. Sonos didn't have an official ETA on the Alexa integration when we asked them for one. The Sonos blog post scheduled for tomorrow (Thursday, August 17) describes the updated privacy statement as coming "next week," but it's unclear how long it will take after that for the Alexa controls to launch. "It's not really a secret that we've been in private beta for a few months," a Sonos representative tells CNET. "The privacy update is another step." That bodes well for anyone who's been holding out for voice-activated Sonos playback, but keep your expectations somewhat tempered. "I wouldn't expect to see the Alexa integration go live before the end of August," the spokesperson tells us. Comments Smart Home Wireless & Bluetooth Speakers Alexa Amazon Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Sonos lays out terms for voice control ahead of Alexa skill Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.