https://www.cnet.com/news/temporarily-unlock-your-iphone-for-99/
Temporarily unlock your iPhone for $99 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Temporarily unlock your iPhone for $99 A new software-based unlocking scheme for your iPhone makes it easier for those of us without soldering skills to leave AT&T. But the good times probably won't last. Tom Krazit September 11, 2007 10:24 PM PDT Free yourself from AT&T! The iPhone revolution is at hand! You'll no longer suffer the tyranny of forced cell phone use for at least another, uh, couple of weeks! Through the magic of technology, it's now possible to unlock an iPhone from AT&T's network through a software download developed by iPhoneSimFree.com. Engadget and Gizmodo tested out the process, and it does appear that the software will let you use the iPhone on any GSM network either inside the U.S. or overseas. Unlocking your iPhone is now easier, but the experience could be fleeting. CNET Networks It's not the first piece of iPhone unlocking technology. After the iPhone Dev Team figured out how to install applications on the iPhone, a few other hacks have arrived including TurboSim, Uniquephones, and that 17-year-old kid from New Jersey who came up with an unlock that involves much soldering and most definitely voids the warranty. But do you really want to pay money to unlock the iPhone? Apple intends to release software updates to the iPhone every so often to deliver new features or capabilities, and it doesn't seem that much of a stretch to assume Apple has purchased a copy of the software unlock in order to lock the iPhone again with the next software update. With so much riding on the iPhone, it still seems likely that Apple doesn't want to open up the iPhone to either application development or other networks until it feels more confident about the OS X iPhone software, which is really a 1.0 release of a new operating system. Rest assured, there will be at least one more iPhone software update this year. And it's not likely that the unlocking software will work after that update arrives, as the folks at iPhoneSimFree.com make clear in several places. Also, the iPhone Dev Team coders, who are asking us not to link to their wiki and flood it with incoming traffic, are mounting a fund-raising campaign spearheaded by Gizmodo to help preserve nonprofit iPhone hacking and reverse-engineer the iPhoneSimFree.com software. Update at 2:25 p.m.: Later in the day, another member of the iPhone Dev Team posted a message in their forums that the group would not be reverse-engineering the iPhoneSimFree.com software out of respect for that organization. But the group says that no one person speaks for the iPhone Dev Team, so it's hard to get a sense of the group's official position in this case. So, I can't recommend that you spend a hundred bucks to unlock your iPhone, although I'm sure that advice will have zero effect. Just wait--at the rate AT&T and Apple are going in the early days of their star-crossed relationship, this thing might be officially unlocked quicker than you think. Comments Culture Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Temporarily unlock your iPhone for $99 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.