https://www.cnet.com/news/best-turntables-under-300-in-2020-audio-technica-pro-ject-fluance-and-more/
Best turntables under $300 in 2020: Audio Technica, Pro-ject, Fluance and more - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best turntables under $300 in 2020: Audio Technica, Pro-ject, Fluance and more Sure you can get a record player for $100, but it's worth spending a little extra on the turntable that brings your vinyl collection to life. We test six of the top contenders. Ty Pendlebury February 8, 2020 1:44 PM PST Best overall under $300 Fluance RT82 Jump to details See at Fluance Best minimalist alternative Pro-Ject Primary Jump to details See at Pro-Ject Best plug and play Music Hall MMF-1.3 Jump to details See at Amazon Best design Audio Technica AT-LPW40WN Jump to details See at B&H Best for newbies U-Turn Orbit Plus Jump to details See at U-Turn Best under $100 Audio Technica AT-LP60 Jump to details See at Amazon Best step-up option Pro-Ject T1 $329 Jump to details See at Turntable Lab Show more (2 items) The time is right to get into budget hi-fi. From cheap, amazing speakers to a high-quality turntable, it's never been more affordable to get a great-sounding system for vinyl records. One of the first questions to ask is: How much should I spend if I want the best turntable? Name a price from $40 or up, and there's no doubt you'll find a record player to fit your budget from vintage turntables to the newest fully automatic and Bluetooth turntable options. For example, the Audio Technica LP60 is a great little turntable for $100. But there are even better choices for the best turntable under $300 out there. Now playing: Watch this: How to set up a budget turntable 5:38 I've chosen $300 as the sweet spot because it opens up the options for finding a high-quality model. These vinyl record players are no longer simple toys but can be considered hi-fi turntables: They offer elevated vinyl record sound quality and high-quality components. With an analog turntable or manual turntable, you'll be constantly removing a vinyl record, moving the tonearm and spinning up an actual motor -- so it's worth spending a bit more for record players that will last. Best turntables under $300 Best overall Best minimalist Best plug and play Best design Best for newbies Best step-up Best under $100 Product Fluance RT82 Pro-Ject Primary Music Hall MMF-1.3 Audio Technica AT-LPW40WN U-Turn Orbit Plus Pro-Ject T1 Audio Technica AT-LP60 Price $300 at Fluance $249 at Pro-Ject $289 at Amazon $299 at B&H starts at $289 at U-Turn $329 at Turntable Lab $79 at Amazon Cartridge Ortofon OM10 Ortofon OM5E Audio Technica AT3600L Audio Technica VM95 Ortofon OM5E Ortofon OM5E Audio Technica AT3600L 33/45 speed switch ✔ ✘ ✔ ✔ ✘ ✘ ✔ Onboard preamp ✘ ✘ ✔ ✔ ✘ at $289, ✔ at $359 ✘ ✔ Adjustable feet ✔ ✘ ✘ ✘ ✘ ✘ ✘ Platter Metal MDF Metal Metal Acrylic Glass Metal Removable headshell ✔ ✘ ✔ ✔ ✘ ✘ ✘ Weight (lbs) 14.1 8.8 11 10.4 12.5 11 lbs 6.6 I also considered vinyl record players from the bigger electronics manufacturers -- Sony, Denon, Yamaha -- but didn't find any below $300 that beat the quality of the ones above. Each of the six turntables models I tested for this buyer's guide has at least something to recommend it, but a couple stood above the rest with solid builds, user-friendly features and excellent sound quality. Let's dive in and check out the top picks for the best turntable under $300. Read more Are you ready to upgrade to your first really decent turntable? Best AV receivers under $500 Soundbar vs. speakers: Which TV audio system sounds best in 2020? Best soundbars for 2020 Best Wi-Fi speakers and music systems of 2020 The best wireless speakers to give in 2020 The winners Best overall under $300 Fluance RT82 Sarah Tew/CNET The Fluance RT82 offers everything you could want except an onboard preamp, so if you have a receiver or amplifier with a dedicated phono input, this is the model to get. I was mightily impressed by the well thought-out inclusions with the Fluance. Auto-start on/off, adjustable feet and even a little bubble-level were designed with the user in mind. This high-quality turntable had one of the most entertaining sounds of the bunch, with plenty of insight into recordings as well as a healthy bass kick. See at Fluance Best minimalist alternative Pro-Ject Primary Sarah Tew/CNET I expected the $250 Pro-Ject Primary (an affordable version of the original Pro-Ject Debut) to perform towards the bottom of the roster: It's the cheapest, the lightest and it has an unusual wooden platter. According to hi-fi folklore "heavier" is supposed to equal "better," so I found it surprising that the Pro-Ject turntable was one of the best sounding. (And if you want even better-sounding, you can pay more for the Pro-Ject Debut Carbon.) It was also one of the easiest to set up. Most of the work was done in the factory -- I just had to attach the belt. If you can handle its barebones aesthetic and want to save a little money on the Fluance, the Pro-Ject Primary is an excellent choice. You can also upgrade to the version with the phono pre-amplifier (also known as a phono preamp or phono stage) for $299, which would make the Pro-Ject even more foolproof. See at Pro-Ject The best of the rest Best plug and play Music Hall MMF-1.3 Sarah Tew/CNET Arriving in the middle of the pack in terms of both build and sound quality, this is a solid turntable at a good price range. It had an even-handed response with all types of music but wasn't as engaging as the Pro-Ject and Fluance tables. If you're looking to plug a modern turntable straight into any receiver (that is, one that lacks a phono preamp or phono stage) then this is the model we'd opt for. See at Amazon Best design Audio Technica AT-LPW40WN Sarah Tew/CNET With its carbon-fiber arm and natural wood veneer plinth, the Audio Technica was my favorite design, but a mixed bag in terms of sound quality for vinyl. The table was the boomiest sounding model when plugged into the same phono pre-amplifier as the others. When I tested its own preamp it was much less bassy, though also less exciting, and this was presumably due to a better match with the cartridge. Though the Music Hall's onboard preamp sounded better, the Audio Technica could be the one to get if you want an all-in-one package that also looks great. See at B&H Best for newbies U-Turn Orbit Plus Sarah Tew/CNET There's no denying the U-Turn Orbit Plus looked striking with its red plinth and acrylic platter. I also appreciate that the tonearm has been upgraded from the original Orbit with a new gimbal bearing. While it's better sounding than I remember from the original, the U-Turn couldn't compete with the sound of the others. It sounded truncated with a lack of extended high frequencies, and on the hardware side the lack of a cue lever felt like a glaring omission. Note that you can also get this model with a built-in preamp for $70 more. See at U-Turn Best under $100 Audio Technica AT-LP60 Sarah Tew If you're just starting out in vinyl or looking for cheap turntables to give as a gift, the inexpensive Audio Technica AT-LP60 belt-drive turntable is a good option with fully automatic operation. While I didn't test it directly against the other six, I have listened to it previously. Even with speakers such as the Bowers & Wilkins 606, the LP60 was able to give a convincing and musical performance. Plus, that fully automatic operation really helps. Read CNET's review. See at Amazon Best step-up option Pro-Ject T1 $329 Sarah Tew/CNET The Pro-Ject may be a little over $300, but it shows how spending a little more can reap benefits. In terms of sound quality it really can bring out the best in your records. It offers refined treble, an expansive, detailed midrange and supple bass. It looks lovely too with its glass platter -- second only in appearance to the Audio Technica (but the Pro-ject sounds better). The T1's only "problem" is that it's ergonomically awkward -- the switch is deep on the left-hand side instead of on the front, and you need to apply a bit of upwards force to remove the tone arm from the rest. The Pro-Ject T1 is sometimes on sale for under $300 and it's a great deal at that price. See at Turntable Lab What does $300 buy you? Above anything else, sound quality is the main reason to upgrade to a better turntable. Compared to an all-in-one design by the likes of Victrola or Crosley, the lack of integrated speakers means the designers can concentrate on things like better motors and upgraded tone-arms. These are hi-fi components that can stand alongside stereo systems worth many thousands of dollars in a way that a $100 turntable can't. From left to right: Music Hall MMF-1.3, Fluance RT82, U-Turn Orbit Plus, Audio Technica AT-LPW40WN, Pro-Ject Primary E. Sarah Tew/CNET There are four main elements to a turntable: The plinth or base, the platter on which the vinyl record sits, the motor and the arm. Both external and internal noise can affect the sound quality of the vinyl, and the idea is to ensure that vibrations don't travel from one to the other of these components, and the vibrations don't interfere with sound. All six $300-ish vinyl record players offer a belt drive design which helps isolate the rumble of the motor from the pickup or stylus. Each vinyl turntable also includes either a removable headshell or at least a replaceable cartridge should you want to experiment with a higher-quality cartridge (such as an Ortofon 2M Red cartridge). Best-sounding albums to own on vinyl 21 Photos Some of the turntables offer upgrade options such as an acrylic plinth, which not only looks smarter but may offer a sound quality upgrade too. It's worth noting that all of the models I tested had a dust cover, but I used (and photographed) them with the lid off. They both look and sound better that way. While every other aspect of a turntable is damped, the dust cover usually is not. It's a simple piece of plastic designed to keep dust off your vinyl while not playing music and can reverberate and cause feedback if left attached and the volume is up loud enough. The Audio-Technica offers a carbon fiber tone arm. Sarah Tew/CNET How I tested them All of these turntables offer a phono-level output -- an unamplified signal that needs RIAA equalization. I plugged them into the phono input on both our reference Rotel RA1592 amplifier and Onkyo TX-NR696 receiver powering a pair of Q Acoustics 3050i tower speakers. For receivers and amps that lack phono input, you'll need a phono preamplifier. Our own Audiophiliac recommends the $100 Schiit Mani phono preamp as a quality budget option. Two of the models offered a switchable line level output -- the Music Hall MMF-1.3 and the Audio Technica AT-LPW40WN -- and this is handy if you don't have or don't want an external preamp. You can plug these models into anything that accepts RCA cables. I also plugged these two directly into the amplifier and compared them against each other. It's worth noting that only three of the six are available outside North America: the Audio Technica AT-LPW40WN, and the Pro-Ject Primary and T1. Between them, I'd recommend the Pro-Ject T1 or the Primary (f your budget is tight). I listened to four different artists from my vinyl collection -- Bob Marley, Slint, LCD Soundsystem and Miles Davis -- on each turntable and compared notes. I listened for a bass response (was it boomy, or clean?), midrange detail (low-level instruments and echo effects) and high frequencies (were they recessed or even too loud?). Skip to the appendix at the end to get a deep dive on how the turntables fared with each song. Which one should you buy? The Fluance is the over-achiever of the bunch with its polished looks, useful features and involving sound, but the only ones that fall far behind are the Audio-Technica and the U-Turn -- their sound quality can't match the other three. If you're able to pay a little more the T1 is lovely, if a little awkward to use. If you're looking for a more familiar name brand, you'll need to pay a little more. The Denon 300F is well-regarded at $329, the Sony PSH-X500 offers hi-res USB ripping for $399 and audiophile favorite the Rega Planar 1 can be had for $450. But it's arguable whether they would be able to offer sound quality that's markedly better than the Fluance or Pro-Ject -- a test for another day perhaps. In the meantime, happy listening! Test your music system with these great rock tracks 22 Photos Full sound quality notes If you want to get a greater insight into the performance of each model, here are the notes I took for myself while listening to each turntable with four different songs (each from a different record). Bob Marley's Revolution This is the first track I tried on all the turntables. The Fluance offered a warm sound with this track with fine control over the deep bass line. The Pro-Ject was natural sounding, with a just a smidgeon of bass bloom but the turntable made the instrument sound like a live bass guitar. This track was my first signal of the Audio Technica's shortcomings. The bass was simply out of control, boomy and unpleasant. However, the midrange offered a good sense of space. The MMF-1.3 had fuller, less "one note" bass than the Audio Technica. The 'table offered more midrange information than some of the others but this also combined with more surface noise. Vocals were more forward on the U-Turn, which suggested improved detail but also meant the turntable turned up more surface noise. The bass guitar was deep and relatively supple, but at the opposite end of the spectrum the cymbals sounded clipped as if it couldn't recreate the high frequency (10kHz and over) information at all. Lastly, the Pro-ject T1 was smoother and it brought the background singers to the fore in a way others didn't, and the horns had greater presence too. Slint's Breadcrumb Trail Compared with the other 'tables the Fluance was better at organizing the sparse scattering of instruments into the space between the speakers. The bass lacked the bloat I heard with the Audio Technica. The Pro-Ject Primary offered a similar sense of space to the Fluance. However, it wasn't able to pick up as much of the narrator's story -- it sounded a little veiled. The track also highlighted some uneven speed issues in the drive; long notes wavered a little. The MMF-1.3 offered good speed stability but lacked the drama of the leaders. There was lots of high-frequency on display but it wasn't sharp or strident. The Music Hall was more forward sounding than the Pro-ject T1 which again sounded more cultured with this track. The rumbling of the sticks from the drummer at the end of the song was easier to hear on the Music Hall. The Audio Technica's issues with bass continued with this song's prominent bass. Low-end notes stuck out in a way I hadn't heard before. The U-Turn turned that abundant high-frequency energy into something splashy, but detail retrieval was good. Like the Pro-Ject, there was some speed-related waver with the long guitar notes. Sarah Tew/CNET LCD Soundsystem's Daft Punk Is Playing at my House The Fluance turned in an enjoyable, toe-tapping performance, with only a shade too much high hat. If you're looking for something a little more even-handed, the Pro-Ject sounded balanced and prompted a singalong from yours truly. The MMF-1.3 was also balanced with this song. The cowbell sounded more distinct on Pro-Ject T1 with a more pronounced stereo image. The Audio Technica offered up bloated bass notes and lots of noise between tracks. This song was the one that painted the U-Turn in its best light -- while there was some faint bass bloat, the vocals were forward of the mix, and the cymbals sounded natural for a change. Maybe this is the DJ turntable for dance-rock fans? Miles Davis' So What? The Fluance could get a little bloomy on bass with more midrange forwardness, but less brightness on the ride. It sounded a lot like what I'd heard at the Sony mastering studio previously. This time it was the Pro-Ject Primary's time to shine as the sound was excellent from top to bottom. The ride cymbal was a little bright but the sax felt like it was in the room. Again the MMF-1.3 put in a good performance, and the bass sounded balanced with an excellent sense of the performance room. It was a very clean presentation with lots of spatial information on the sax especially. The Audio Technica and U-Turn both exposed more surface noise on this recording. The bottom end was a little more refined on the Pro-ject T1 and the treble sweeter too. I quickly found that the speed is a pain to change, though, and I somehow got the drive belt stuck on the outer edge making it run too fast. When situated properly it worked fine. Bob Marley's Revolution take 2 (phono preamp models) Lastly, I listened to the Bob Marley track again with the built-in phono preamps (line-level outputs) of the MMF-1.3 and the Audio Technica. The MMF-1.3 had the better preamp, with a more exciting presentation of the song but the bass threatened to become slightly bloated. In comparison, the Audio Technica sounded much less exciting, and smaller, less impactful, but at least the bass was not as boomy as it had been through our tests. Originally published last year. Added Pro-Ject T1. Comments Audio Sony Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Best turntables under $300 in 2020: Audio Technica, Pro-ject, Fluance and more Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.