https://www.cnet.com/news/ben-affleck-to-be-next-batman/
Ben Affleck to be next Batman - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Ben Affleck to be next Batman The two-time Academy Award winner is cast as the caped crusader in "Man of Steel 2," the Batman-Superman pairing expected in 2015. Steven Musil August 22, 2013 7:23 PM PDT Ben Affleck accepting the Best Picture Oscar for "Argo" earlier this year. Adrian Sanchez-Gonzalez/AFP/Getty Images Are you ready for a new caped crusader? Ben Affleck was unmasked Thursday as the actor who will portray Batman in "Man of Steel 2," the planned sequel to this summer's Superman blockbuster. Movie fans got their first taste of the new movie, which pairs up the two superheroes for the first time on the big screen, during a panel discussion at Comic-Con last month. Related stories In Birds of Prey, streaming early, Harley Quinn gets the joyous DC adventure she deserves The worst superhero movies of all time Westworld season 3: Jeffrey Wright on Bernard's suffering and quest for freedom The 2015 Warner Bros. movie will be directed by Zack Snyder and feature Henry Cavill reprising the role of Superman/Clark Kent. Other "Man of Steel" stars set to return include Amy Adams, Laurence Fishburne, and Diane Lane. "We knew we needed an extraordinary actor to take on one of DC Comics' most enduringly popular superheroes, and Ben Affleck certainly fits that bill, and then some," Warner Bros.' President of Production Greg Silverman said in a statement. "His outstanding career is a testament to his talent and we know he and Zack will bring new dimension to the duality of this character." Affleck, who has won Academy Awards for last year's "Argo" and 1997's "Good Will Hunting," is no stranger to the superhero genre. In 2003, he played the title role in the largely forgettable movie "Daredevil," which has garnered a 45 percent rating on Rotten Tomatoes. The new movie is said to be a reimagining of the superheroes' decades-long, friendly dynamic, positioning them on opposite ends of the political and social spectrum. Comments Culture Notification on Notification off Internet Close Discuss: Ben Affleck to be next Batman Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.