https://www.cnet.com/news/thousands-petition-to-unmask-affleck-from-batman-role/
Thousands petition to unmask Affleck from Batman role - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Thousands petition to unmask Affleck from Batman role The protest movement against Academy Award winner Ben Affleck taking on the role of Batman reaches the petition stage. Amanda Kooser August 26, 2013 3:02 PM PDT Some Batman fans are feeling a little grumpy. Grumpycats.com The announcement that Ben Affleck will don the hallowed Batsuit for the upcoming "Man of Steel" sequel has led to what can fairly be described as a massive hissyfit from some fans. To see just how massive, we can check in at Change.org, where more than 75,000 people have signed a petition to register their disgust and demand Affleck's removal from the role. The petition gives a litany of reasons why Warner Brothers should dump Affleck from the film project. These include inadequate acting skills to portray Bruce Wayne. ("He's not intimidating enough for the role of Batman," writes petition-starter John Roden. Says a signer, "He can't carry a movie on his own and is certainly no superhero.") Also cited: his "atrocious" portrayal of superhero Daredevil in the 2003 movie of the same name. "I would like to add that this petition was not meant in any way to harm Ben Affleck or his career. I respect Affleck's work, I just feel he is inappropriate for the role," writes Roden. Related stories Ballmer and Affleck: Why the Twitting spittle? Ben Affleck to be next Batman Anti-Affleckers also started a petition on We the People, the White House's official petition site, but it was quickly removed for violating the terms of participation. So don't go crying to President Obama if you don't like the casting decision. The new film sounds like it will be a Superman-Batman buddy flick. It will bring back Henry Cavill as Superman, along with "Man of Steel" director Zack Snyder. The film is still in pre-production, but has an anticipated release date of 2015. One of the latest rumors is that Bryan Cranston from "Breaking Bad" has been cast to play villain Lex Luthor, giving him another opportunity to rock the bald look. Nobody seems to be complaining about this role choice. There is one thought that should bring comfort to all these Affleck-opposers. There's no way this Super-Bat movie will be worse than "Gigli." (Via CBS Detroit) Comments Crave Gaming Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Thousands petition to unmask Affleck from Batman role Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.