https://www.cnet.com/news/an-impressive-apple-airpods-alternative-for-just-40-dollars/
An impressive Apple AirPods alternative for just $40 - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. An impressive Apple AirPods alternative for just $40 If you can overlook the silly name, the EarFun Free earphones are an excellent value alternative to the AirPods, featuring both USB-C and wireless charging. David Carnoy September 24, 2019 12:38 PM PDT Leer en español Listen - 02:22 Enlarge Image The EarFun Free list for $80, but are on sale for $40 for a limited time. Sarah Tew/CNET The folks from EarFun, which includes some former employees from budget audio favorite Tribit, have been trying to get me to review the startup's new Free true wireless earbuds for a while. Unfortunately, with the first review sample I received, I could only pair one of the earbuds to my phone -- the buds wouldn't join up into a stereo pair. But I've had much better luck with a second review sample and just noticed that EarFun is running a sale: The EarFun Free is $40, or $40 off the list price of $80 for a limited time. Note that CNET may get a share of revenue from the sale of the products featured on this page. See it Amazon What's most impressive about the EarFun Free is the features: Bluetooth 5.0, both USB-C and wireless charging, and fully waterproof (IPX7), according to their specs. Do they sound great? No, but they sound pretty good. They don't have the clarity of higher-end true wireless earbuds that cost $150 or more, but they do have plump bass and just enough detail to avoid sounding dull. EarFun Free are cheap but packed with features 10 Photos Of course, getting a tight seal is paramount to maximizing the sound quality, particularly the bass. But using the largest of the included tips I didn't have a problem getting a comfortable, secure fit with a tight seal. I was able to run with them in my ears (they're pretty lightweight and not too bulky). This type of fit, however -- where the ear tip dips into your ear canal -- isn't for everyone. It's a noise-isolating design so you get some passive noise canceling, which helps when you're walking around a noisy city like New York. Battery life is rated at 6 hours at moderate volume levels and the case provides four charges on the go. A 10-minute charge gives you two hours of playback time, EarFun says. You control playback with physical buttons (no touch controls) and after pairing them once, the earbuds should repair automatically with your Bluetooth-enabled smartphone or tablet when you take them out of the charging case. Read more: Best cheap true wireless earbuds of 2019 | Best AirPods accessories Enlarge Image They're not bulky. Sarah Tew/CNET Aside from listening to some music, I watched some YouTube and Netflix videos and didn't notice any audio/video synching issues. There didn't seem to be any lag, but I didn't try the earphones with every video app. I also made a few calls and the earbuds seemed to work fine as a headset, but don't expect business-class performance, particularly outdoors in noisy or windy environments. I don't know how these will hold up over time or whether you might encounter the same problem I had with only one bud pairing. But for only $40 on Amazon, which has a good return policy, they're worth trying if you're looking for a cheap pair of true wireless earphones. Comments Mobile Accessories Headphones Amazon Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: An impressive Apple AirPods alternative for just $40 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.