https://www.cnet.com/news/hololens-2-spatial-app-wants-to-bring-avengers-like-holograms-to-your-conference-room/
HoloLens 2's Spatial app wants to bring Avengers-like holograms to your conference room - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In HoloLens 2's Spatial app wants to bring Avengers-like holograms to your conference room Spatial's work suite blends AR, phones and video chat, and now connects with Microsoft Teams. Scott Stein May 6, 2019 10:00 AM PDT Mattel has been working with Spatial's HoloLens app for teleconferencing and toy design. Screenshot by CNET You've seen this cinematic vision of the future: holograms in your conference room, consulting on glowing, floating 3D plans. Windows popping up in the air with real faces joining in videoconference, like portals to other worlds. Avengers: Endgame had a few scenes peppered with visions like these. The Microsoft HoloLens 2 is getting something that's the closest thing I've seen to that in the real world via a company called Spatial. I got a peek of it ahead of Microsoft's Build developer conference, which opens Monday, and it's the most interesting use of mixed reality for work that I've ever seen. Now playing: Watch this: HoloLens 2: Avatars reach out and touch 5:01 Spatial debuted its first version of collaborative workspace software for HoloLens in October 2018. I demoed it earlier this year in New York on the original HoloLens hardware, before the HoloLens 2 debuted. The company demonstrated its improved collaborative tools on HoloLens 2 at the Microsoft launch event in Barcelona in February, and announced extra features at Microsoft Build on Monday, including hook-ins for Microsoft Teams. The new version's avatars and their added eye and hand tracking make use of HoloLens 2's most interesting features. But I'm equally intrigued by how Spatial aims to blend documents from many sources and devices at once. Read on ZDNet: Microsoft Build 2019: Azure is the star, and Windows is a bit player The feeling is uncanny: a coworker's avatar can drop in like a ghost in your space, while you both bring up shared documents, clippings, 3D assets and web pages and throw them on walls. Suddenly, everything feels like your office webconference has sprouted 3D tendrils and expanded around the room. Or, it's like turning 3D space into a whiteboard. Toymaker Mattel has already been using the HoloLens and Spatial's mixed reality app in collaborative workspaces. Now playing: Watch this: Microsoft HoloLens 2: A first dive into the future of... 4:54 Spatial takes advantage of some key HoloLens 2 features, pointing towards the possibilities for telepresence in mixed reality down the road. Hand and finger tracking mean avatars can point and grab at things. Eye tracking translates into your avatar's eye motions actually shifting and landing on whoever you're addressing from your headset. The demo video that Spatial CEO and co-founder Anand Agarawalla showed me ahead of Microsoft's Build conference was almost eerie. It's not as ultra real as Facebook's experimental 3D photoreal avatars being developed at its Reality Labs in Pittsburgh, but it's a step towards a future like that. The finger tracking means avatars could scribble on a wall, too. Would collaboration with uncanny 3D avatars feel useful, or jarring? I sometimes found it an odd mix. But I loved the idea of turning a whole space into a flexible brainstorming space, covering walls with screens and notes, and gathering around 3D objects together. It's not as seamless as the Marvel future-vision of effortless holograms, but it's probably the closest thing we've got right now. Read more at ZDNet: Microsoft adds more AI, mixed-reality, IoT services to its Azure line-up The coolest thing about Spatial to me, though, is that it works with phones or laptops: iOS and Android phones have apps that can be used to type, throw links into the collaboration, or even skip the HoloLens 2 and do standard video chat instead. Team members could use a phone or a web app to chat, and the phone app uses AR to peek into the collaborative session, too, for people who can't afford a $3,500 HoloLens 2 for their office. Spatial's app uses Microsoft's Azure Cloud Anchors to pin collaborations in a shared space, and a new Android app can access those cloud anchors, too. Spatial can also pull in files via OneDrive. Spatial's Microsoft Teams support comes to the existing app for the HoloLens in June. Meanwhile, the new HoloLens 2 has a price, but no official release date yet, and it'll need great software to be relevant. Spatial is the first interesting app I've seen that could help it out. Microsoft's HoloLens 2 pulls us further into an augmented reality 18 Photos Comments Wearable Tech Augmented reality (AR) Notification on Notification off Microsoft Close Discuss: HoloLens 2's Spatial app wants to bring Avengers-like holograms to your conference room Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.