https://www.cnet.com/news/everything-you-wanted-to-know-about-the-iphone/
Everything you wanted to know about the iPhone - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Everything you wanted to know about the iPhone Just back from outer space? Don't know what the iPhone is? You'd better catch up by reading this -- you'll avoid embarrassing yourself at dinner parties Andrew Lim June 30, 2007 5:21 AM PDT If you've recently been released from a maximum-security prison or -- shock horror -- you just don't care that much about technology, then you might be wondering what all the fuss about the iPhone is. Instead of feeling bemused while your mates go on about how they want to buy one, and whether or not touchscreen interfaces are the future, read this article and wow them with your insightful comments and in-depth knowledge. What is it? The iPhone is a mobile phone created by Apple, the company that makes iPods. It combines technology from several of its devices. It features a large colour screen and doesn't have a traditional keypad, instead relying on a touchscreen interface that lets you tap it, brush it sideways and even use two fingers to enlarge images using a pinching motion. If you want to see it in action, watch Apple's tour-guide-style video. What does it do? Aside from calling and texting, you can use the iPhone to listen to music, watch videos, browse the Web, find directions on Google Maps and watch YouTube videos. What makes it special compared to other phones is a glorious combination of stuff: its on-board applications, 8GB of internal memory (or 4GB, depending on the model you buy), its easy-to-use interface, the large squint-reducing screen and myriad small details, such as a 3.5mm headphone jack that lets you use a normal pair of headphones. Do I need one? If you've already got a mobile phone you like and an iPod, and you're not much of an on-the-go Web-browsing kind of person, then you don't really need an iPhone. Yes, it's going to be the trendy must-have-gadget of 2008 and it does do some very cool things, but it's not going to change your life if you think a phone is just a phone. This is about convergence, so unless you want all your gadgets in one, then your current mobile and iPod should do fine. Where can I buy one? From this Friday, 29 June, the iPhone will be available at US Apple and AT&T stores. We in the UK, on the other hand, have to wait until the end of the year. If you're thinking about buying one from the US, think again. For starters, you have to buy it on a monthly contract and therefore need a US address. Then there's the issue of it being locked to the AT&T network -- there's no word yet as to whether or not you can change the SIM. So we're all going to have to wait. How much is it going to cost? At the moment all we know for definite is that the 4GB model will cost $499 (£250) and the 8GB model $599 (£300), not including monthly network charges. Rumours have it that the network tariff will offer unlimited data, so you can browse the Web as much as you like, and it may include 2,000 text messages too, all for the not-so-scary price of $34-44 (£17-22) per month. These speculated figures only apply to the US though, and no rumours have turned up for UK price plans. Update: Apple has just announced the official AT&T network tariffs for the US, which you can check out for yourself here. They start at $60 (£30) per month and include unlimited data. Still no word on network tariffs for the UK. Is there anything wrong with it? For all the hype the iPhone attracts, there are a few problems with it that might wind you up. The lack of 3G, for example, means that you can only get high-speed Web access via Wi-Fi hotspots, which can be difficult to find or expensive to use here in the UK. There's also the issue of using a touchscreen interface to do everything, particularly text messaging and writing emails. Tapping a flat screen just isn't the same as using a traditional keypad -- it doesn't provide the reassuring tactile feedback you get from pressing real keys. It's bound to pick up grease and scratches, too. It's also not that small, so if you value your pocket space then you might not want to lug an iPhone about. If I don't want to buy one, what are the alternatives? If you're not an Apple fan and you don't want to splash out that much money on a mobile phone, there are other options. The Nokia N95 does almost everything the iPhone does and features HSDPA (3.5G) connectivity, which means high-speed Internet access almost everywhere you go. If Nokia's not your thing, then you can always opt for the Sony Ericsson W960i, due to be released later this year, which features 8GB of on-board memory, Wi-Fi and a 3.2-megapixel camera with auto-focus. -Andrew Lim Update: a full review of the Apple iPhone is now live. Comments Phones Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Everything you wanted to know about the iPhone Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.