https://www.cnet.com/news/alltel-joins-lte-bandwagon/
Alltel joins LTE bandwagon - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Alltel joins LTE bandwagon The largest rural carrier in the U.S. said it, like Verizon, will use LTE to build its 4G network. That compatibility could ultimately lead to better coverage, more handsets offerings, and more open networks. Marguerite Reardon May 16, 2008 9:22 AM PDT Alltel, the largest rural cell phone provider in the U.S., plans to use the same technology to build its 4G network that AT&T and Verizon Wireless have chosen, a move that should provide better coverage for next generation wireless users. But don't expect a major 4G upgrade from Alltel overnight. The company said during its quarterly conference call on Thursday that it would likely take three to five years to deploy the new network. Still, the fact that yet another wireless operator has committed to using Long Term Evolution or LTE, is a big deal. Since the cell phone operators deployed networks in the U.S., consumers have had to deal with two major cellular technologies: CDMA and GSM. Verizon, Sprint Nextel, and Alltel went the CDMA route. Meanwhile, AT&T and T-Mobile, along with a slew of regional carriers, deployed GSM. This division in the market has resulted in cell phone manufacturers developing different products for each technology, which has led to delays in some products on certain networks. It has also meant that CDMA subscribers haven't been able to roam as much internationally. And it's resulted in fewer roaming agreements between major carriers domestically, which has led to some holes in coverage, especially in rural areas. So it's significant that the two major CDMA players in the U.S.--Verizon Wireless and Alltel--plan to use the same technology that most GSM carriers throughout the world plan to use. With most major operators using the same technology, coverage should improve and so should the availability of cool new handsets. It should also make it easier for carriers to make their networks more open, allowing customers to take their phones or wireless-enabled devices from one network to another. Alltel is the fifth largest carrier in U.S. with only 13 million subscribers, but the company covers some 34 states and has coverage in parts of Mexico and Canada. It also has roaming agreements in many markets throughout the U.S. and Canada. "It is no surprise that Alltel chose LTE as its 4G technology, since the carrier usually mirrors choices made by Verizon Wireless," said Nadine Manjaro, senior analyst at ABI Research. "Alltel's choice of LTE will help to ensure greater rural coverage for small and mid-sized cities in the United States and Canada since the carrier already has data roaming agreements in place. This will complement other mobile operators' initial LTE build-outs in major urban areas." Alltel's announcement that it will deploy LTE in some ways further alienates the Sprint-Clearwire WiMax network. Sprint and Clearwire announced last week they were combining forces to create a nationwide WiMax network. Even though these companies claim that their network will be at least two years ahead of any LTE deployments, it's clearer now more than ever that wireless operators are opting for that technology rather than WiMax. And that could mean a more aggressive and cost-effective ecosystem for LTE. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Alltel joins LTE bandwagon Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.