https://www.cnet.com/news/games-you-can-play-with-google-home/
Try these 43 games on your Google Home - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In 43 games you can play with Google Home Google Home isn't only for streaming music and controlling your smart home. It has tons of games you can enjoy solo or with a group of friends. Taylor Martin June 27, 2017 6:22 PM PDT Google Home ($99 at Walmart) is great for controlling your smart home and helping out in the kitchen. But smart speakers are just as much for play as they are for work. Whether you're bored with everything on Netflix or you're having guests over, here are 43 games you can play with Google Home. Guessing games Guess my age is exactly what it sounds like. Google Home will attempt to guess your age based on your answers to a few questions. With Guess the Founder, it's your job to correctly answer questions about founders and their companies. Mystery Sounds plays everyday sounds out of context to see if you can guess them. The faster you guess correctly, the higher your score will be. Adventure games 6 Swords is a voice-based RPG where you can build a team of up to six companions to explore castles, cities and dungeons. It's based on the first edition of Dungeons and Dragons. In Crazy House, you "explore rooms filled with unique items." Crazy Portals is an adventure game that takes you through strange cities. Earplay is a choose-your-own-adventure game where you play a secret agent in a radio drama. This Assistant ($250 at Amazon) app requires linking your Earplay account and content might not be suitable for all ages. The Magic Door is also a choose-your-own-adventure game with several stories to choose from. Find hidden items and solve puzzles and riddles as you navigate a forest, garden and an ancient temple. In The Pilgrim and The Guardian you play either the guardian at the gate to a temple at the end of the forest, or the pilgrim, who wants to enter the temple. Only the guardian knows the password, which changes each time, and the pilgrim must guess the password. With Sub War, you command a submarine that's capturing the Acton Straits. You must face off against up to a dozen other submarines with limited ammunition. Each shot also gives the enemies a clue about your location. Tyler Lizenby/CNET Classic games 21 Blackjack is the standard Blackjack we all know and love. Get as close to 21 without busting to beat the dealer. Akinator the Genie will try to guess any character you can think of by asking a series of questions. You must try to stump the Akinator. Settle disputes or peek into your future, if you will, with the Crystal Ball. The Crystal Ball will give you yes or no answers to your questions. You can play Classic Hangman with Google Home. Figure out the hidden word by guessing letters. Guess too many incorrect letters and you lose. Magic 8 Ball, like the Crystal Ball, will give you randomized answers to your questions. Settle a dispute, make a difficult decision or just have some fun. Playing Tic Tac Toe with Google Home adds an interesting twist to the typically visual game. You must visualize the board (or write it down as you go). Party games Absurd is the Word will give you an absurd prompt and two possible items as answers. After everyone has chosen their answer, the most chosen answer wins the round. Ding Dong Coconut is a memory game where you must associate words with sounds. Each round, a new sound and word association is made. See how many rounds you can last. With Mad Libs, you fill in the blanks with random words to try to make the funniest mad lib. We've all played the Name Game before. You start with a name and try to rhyme it (even with gibberish) as long as you can. Just say, "OK, Google, play the name game with [name]." Google Home will feed you prompts for your rounds of Never have I ever, such as, "Never have I ever had to get stitches." You can also use Google Home to play Truth or Dare. It will provide truths and dares for you to keep the game interesting. Here's everything the Google Home can do 18 Photos Math and number games 1-2-3 Math tests your math skills with basic addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. Math Marathon will give you two numbers to add or subtract. If you choose the correct answer, it moves on to the next question. See how long you can last. Math Quiz is very similar in that it feeds you continual arithmetic questions until you ask it to stop. With Number Genie you must use hints to guess the correct number. Number Recall will give you a sequence of numbers that you must repeat back. If you repeat it correctly, a number will be added to the end of the sequence. If you do not repeat it correctly, a number will be removed from the sequence. Reverse Math Game is a step up in difficulty over other math games. You're given a number and a criteria, and you have to provide the equation that would give you that number as an answer. Trivia Absolutely Amazing Trivia is a trivia game about a wide range of topics. American Presidents Quiz tests your knowledge of American presidents. Capital Land is a trivia game that asks questions about the capitals of different countries. Friends Trivia is a trivia game for fans of the show "Friends." Geek Girl Rising Trivia Game is a trivia game that tests your knowledge of the contributions women have made to the tech world. Hitchhiker's Guide Quiz tests your knowledge of "Hitchiker's Guide to the Galaxy." HuffPost Headline Quiz is a weekly quiz to see how closely you've followed the news. New quizzes roll out every Friday. Lucky Trivia is a gameshow with general trivia that can be played solo or with a group. Mandy Star Trek Trivia Game is a simple "Star Trek" trivia game. Seven of Nine is also a "Stark Trek" trivia game, but specific to the Saven of Nine character. Planet Quiz tests your knowledge of our solar system. SongPop will play a song and you must guess what song it is. You can choose different artists and genres. Speech Tech Trivia is a trivia game about speech technology. Squared Circle Wrestling Trivia is a professional wrestling trivia game. Trivia Blast is a pop culture trivia game. Comments Smart Home Notification on Notification off Google Close Discuss: 43 games you can play with Google Home Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.