https://www.cnet.com/news/best-noise-cancelling-headphones-of-2019/
Best noise-canceling headphones of 2020 - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best noise-canceling headphones of 2020 Looking for an active noise-canceling headphone? These are CNET's current top picks. David Carnoy February 28, 2020 11:53 AM PST Leer en español Best all around Sony WH-1000XM3 Jump to details $278 at Walmart Most discreet Apple AirPods Pro Jump to details $249 at Apple Excellent for making calls Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 Jump to details $399 at Walmart Best value Anker Soundcore Life Q20 Jump to details $60 at Amazon Best true wireless noise-canceling Sony WF-1000XM3 Jump to details $198 at Walmart Best newcomer Jabra Elite 85h Jump to details $250 at Walmart Impressive sound Sennheiser Momentum 3 Jump to details $394 at Abt Electronics Luxury looks, luxury sound Bowers & Wilkins PX7 Jump to details $349 at Abt Electronics Best on-ear noise-canceling Beats Solo Pro Jump to details $300 at Walmart Swankiest Bang & Olufsen Beoplay H9 (3rd gen) Jump to details $450 at Amazon Most comfortable Bose QuietComfort 35 II Jump to details $349 at Walmart Best under $200 JBL Live 650BTNC Jump to details $150 at B&H Photo-Video Underrated Beats Studio3 Wireless Jump to details $249 at Walmart Frequent flier friendly Bose QuietComfort 20 Jump to details $249 at Walmart Good value Sennheiser HD 4.50BTNC Jump to details $105 at Walmart Show more (10 items) For many years, Bose was the audio gold standard for noise-canceling headphones that block out ambient sound and background noise. But other companies have steadily chipped away at Bose's lead and now it's a competitive category with plenty of compelling noise-canceling options at different prices to buy. I've collected the best noise-canceling headphones below, all of which I've fully reviewed or used hands-on over a period of time. I'll be updating this list as more audio options are released. Now playing: Watch this: Bose's new Noise Cancelling 700 Headphones live up to... 4:49 Best all around Sony WH-1000XM3 Juan Garzon / CNET Sony's WH-1000XM3, the third generation of Sony's excellent wireless noise-canceling headphones, has a more comfortable fit and features even better sound and music performance than its predecessor. Battery life is important, and with a strong battery life, it's currently our top-rated audio headphone with noise cancellation, edging out the Bose models on some key points. Read our Sony WH-1000XM3 review. $278 at Walmart $278 at Abt Electronics $278 at B&H Photo-Video Most discreet Apple AirPods Pro Sarah Tew/CNET Even if the music or audio doesn't sound as magical as you'd hope a $249 model would, the AirPods Pro still manage to be a good pair of truly wireless headphones. That's largely due to their winning design and fit, improved bass performance (which helps the audio quality), effective noise cancellation and excellent call quality. Plus, they're a lot less noticeable than over-ear headphones. Yeah, they're expensive to buy at $250, but the good news is you'll use them so much you'll probably wear the battery down -- it does degrade over time and isn't replaceable -- and have to buy a new pair in 18 to 24 months if you don't lose them first. Read our Apple AirPods Pro review. $249 at Apple $249 at B&H Photo-Video $250 at Best Buy Excellent for making calls Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 Sarah Tew/CNET Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700, the long-awaited successor to its QuietComfort 35 II models, may not be a quantum leap forward but they offer slightly better sound, call and noise cancellation quality. Alas, they cost $400 to buy, but they're a strong all-around audio performer with up to 20 hours of battery life. That's a lot of battery life! Read our Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 review. $399 at Walmart $399 at Abt Electronics $399 at HP Best value Anker Soundcore Life Q20 Sarah Tew/CNET Anker's Soundcore Life Q20 is arguably the best value in noise-canceling headphones. Not only do these over-ear headphones sound quite decent for their regular list price of $60 (they often sell for $10 less), but they're also comfortable to wear thanks to the secure ear cups. No, the Life Q20 doesn't sound as good as premium Bluetooth headphones such as the Sony WH-1000XM3, but the audio quality is pretty good, which is all you can ask for noise-canceling headphones at this price. It's fairly well balanced with a reasonable amount of clarity and plump bass that's not bloated or muddy (there's a bass boost or BassUp mode if you want an extra helping of bass with your music). Also, the noise cancellation is acceptably effective and it's solid as a headset for making calls. Battery life is good at 40 hours. A simple carrying pouch is included. Read more. $60 at Amazon Best true wireless noise-canceling Sony WF-1000XM3 Sarah Tew/CNET While they aren't water-resistant, Sony's new WF-1000XM3 true wireless headphones feature excellent sound, are good for listening to music or any audio with, and have something you won't find in Apple's AirPods: active noise cancellation. At $230, these noise-canceling earbuds are not cheap to buy, but with a battery life lasting up to 24 hours (even more battery life!) and that good sound, they are among the best new true wireless earbuds of 2020. Read our Sony WF-1000XM3 review. $198 at Walmart $228 at Abt Electronics $198 at B&H Photo-Video Best newcomer Jabra Elite 85h Sarah Tew/CNET When Jabra first announced its new Elite 85h ($300, £280 or about AU$435 converted) over-ear headphones, it touted how it would be equipped with always-on (hands-free) voice assistant control using Amazon's Alexa or Google Assistant. Alas, that feature didn't make it into the final product -- apparently it affected battery life too much, and battery life is critical -- but the Elite 85h is nevertheless an excellent noise canceling headphone that makes music and audio sound good, with good sound quality, is comfortable to wear and also works well (important for over-ear headphones) as a headset for making calls. Read our Jabra Elite 85h review. $250 at Walmart $250 at Best Buy $300 at QVC Impressive sound Sennheiser Momentum 3 Sarah Tew/CNET When it comes to premium noise canceling headphones, Bose and Sony have been the dominant players over the last few years. But now Sennheiser has turned up with its new Momentum 3 Wireless and it deserves some attention, particularly from folks who are fans of the Momentum line. It's available to buy now for $400 (£369) -- the same price as Bose's Noise Cancelling Headphones 700. Not only does it feature improved noise canceling features and excellent sound and audio, but it also performs well as headset for making calls. While its noise cancellation and comfort level doesn't quite measure up to the noise cancellation and comfort of Sony WH-1000XM3's, it has nicely padded ear cups covered with sheep leather and I had no trouble rocking it for a two-hour music listening session, to say nothing of the battery life. Read CNET first take. $394 at Abt Electronics $400 at B&H Photo-Video $350 at Best Buy Luxury looks, luxury sound Bowers & Wilkins PX7 Amazon I liked Bowers & Wilkins' original PX noise-canceling headphones, but they were slightly lacking in both the comfort and noise-canceling departments. The company's new PX7, released in the fall of 2019, improves on both fronts, with excellent sound, four noise-canceling settings (Automatic, Low, High and Off) and well padded ear cups in a sturdy, eye-catching design. There's also an adjustable ambient "transparency" mode that allows you to hear the outside world. The headphones are a tad heavy at 10.7 ounces (304 grams), but the build quality is top-notch -- and it better be considering these are a little pricey at $400. Bowers & Wilkins also makes a more compact on-ear model, the PX5 ($300), which is also quite good. But this model does sound a little better. The sound is rich and detailed, with deep bass that remains well defined even at high volumes. This is a pretty dynamic headphone, with a touch of extra energy in the mid-highs. It's not laid-back like the earlier PX5 Wireless and its most direct competitor is probably the Sennheiser Momentum 3 above. That Sennheiser is arguably superior for making calls, but this B&W probably wins on design. It supports AAC and aptX, uses Bluetooth 5.0, charges via USB-C and has up to 30 hours of battery life at moderate volume levels. It's noise canceling isn't quite at the level of the Bose or Sony, but it's not far off -- as I said, it's improved from the original PX's noise canceling. Read more. $349 at Abt Electronics $349 at B&H Photo-Video $350 at Best Buy Best on-ear noise-canceling Beats Solo Pro David Carnoy/CNET The Solo Pro is the first Beats on-ear headphone to feature active noise cancellation and the first full-size Beats headphone to charge via Lightning. It uses the company's Pure Adaptive Noise Canceling (Pure ANC), "derived from the over-ear Studio3 Wireless, with updated tuning to accommodate the on-ear form factor," Beats says. With a tap of button, you can turn off that noise cancellation to save battery life or hit the button a second time to enter an audio transparency mode that allows you to hear the outside world, not just the music you're listening to. Available in multiple color options, the headphone is equipped with six microphones, two of which are beamforming mics that are designed to hone in on your voice when making calls or talking to your voice assistant (Apple's H1 chip is on board for always-on Siri). The sound is smooth and well-balanced with punchy bass that doesn't make music sound boomy. Quite comfortable for an on-ear model, its more compact design travels better than some full-size models on this list. I just wish it cost a little less. Read CNET first take. $300 at Walmart $300 at Apple $300 at B&H Photo-Video Swankiest Bang & Olufsen Beoplay H9 (3rd gen) Amazon Bang & Olufsen's Beoplay H9 doesn't get mentioned much in the discussion of top noise canceling headphones because at $500, it's a really pricey pair of headphones to buy. The latest third-generation version has been upgraded in a few significant ways that make it better than the earlier H9i. Battery life for this version has improved over the battery life of the previous version to 25 hours, there's now a dedicated button for your voice assistant, the padding on the ear cushions and headband is cushier and the touch controls have been tweaked. The audio sound is still good. Read more. $450 at Amazon Most comfortable Bose QuietComfort 35 II Sarah Tew/CNET When Bose released its new flagship Noise Cancelling 700 Headphones it didn't drop the QuietComfort 35 II from its headphone line up and it remains a top noise canceling headphone. While I think the 700 performs better overall, there are people who prefer the QuietComfort 35 II. It frequently goes on sale for less than its price so definitely look for it at a discount if you want to buy it. Read our Bose QuietComfort 35 II review. $349 at Walmart $349 at Abt Electronics $320 at HP Best under $200 JBL Live 650BTNC Sarah Tew/CNET While its noise canceling feature and comfort levels aren't quite on par with competing models from Bose and Sony, JBL's Live 650BTNC ($160) measures up well in terms of sound. These over-ear headphones are worth considering if you don't want to spend $300 or more on a noise canceling headphone. We like the sound of that! Read our JBL Live 650BTNC review. $150 at B&H Photo-Video $150 at Best Buy Underrated Beats Studio3 Wireless Sarah Tew/CNET A lot of people don't think of the Beats Studio3 Wireless as a noise canceling headphone but it does feature active noise cancellation and impressive sound. It's a little bit of an underrated headphone, with good battery life, quality sound and comfortable ear pads, and now that it's been out for a while it sells for less than its list price and sometimes significantly less. Read our Beats Studio3 Wireless review. $249 at Walmart $350 at Best Buy $350 at Crutchfield Frequent flier friendly Bose QuietComfort 20 Truth be told these are the in-ear headphones I usually take with me on plane trips. The noise canceling earbuds take up very little room in a bag, don't need a battery (so no worrying about battery life) and are good for watching in-flight movies, whether they be on the airline's in-flight entertainment system or on your own device. They offer surprisingly good noise cancellation. Just don't forget your headphone adapter dongle if you have a phone or tablet that's missing the headphone jack. Note that these in-ear headphones have been out for a while. Since it's a wired model, it's unclear whether Bose will update it, but look for it on sale. Read our Bose QuietComfort 20 review. $249 at Walmart $249 at Abt Electronics $249 at B&H Photo-Video Good value Sennheiser HD 4.50BTNC Sarah Tew/CNET If you can't afford some of the premium models on this list, consider a headphone like the Sennheiser HD 4.50. It offers good sound and decent noise canceling in an attractive, comfortable design that's selling for $100 with the impending arrival of the HD 450BT ($150), which Sennheiser showed at CES 2020 and should be out this spring. The only issue some people have with the HD 4.50 is that the ear pads aren't as plush as those of some higher-priced headphones. Read our Sennheiser HD 4.50 BTNC Wireless review. $105 at Walmart $180 at B&H Photo-Video Good on-ear AKG N60NC Sarah Tew/CNET When it comes to noise canceling headphones, most people go for a full-size model. But if you're looking for a set of headphones that is a little more compact, the AKG N60NC is an excellent on-ear headphone that also happens to feature active noise cancellation. Read our AKG N60NC Wireless review. Read more: Best true wireless earbuds of 2020 Best wireless earbuds and headphones for making calls Best headphones of 2020 Best cheap wireless noise-canceling headphones under $100 Best headphones for running in 2020 Best over-ear headphones of 2020 Originally published last year. Regularly updated with new products as we test them. Comments Mobile Accessories Headphones Bose Sony Apple Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Best noise-canceling headphones of 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.