https://www.cnet.com/news/the-pot-scraper-a-5-kitchen-tool-you-will-never-regret/
Ode to the $5 pot scraper - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Ode to the $5 pot scraper Get rid of your sponge. Use a scraper. Rich Brown March 26, 2020 6:38 AM PDT Rich Brown/CNET Other than soap and water, there is no better tool for washing your dishes than a pot scraper. I've worked as a dishwasher. First at a sleepaway summer camp in northern Connecticut, where we served hot food to 300 sweaty children three times a day. I had no pot scraper then. I wish I had. A few years later, up in Burlington, Vermont, for college I worked at a Bruegger's Bagels. There during my junior year, I baked, prepped, stocked, washed and, yes, even once prepared a bagel for then US Congressman Bernie Sanders (sesame, plain, not toasted if I remember correctly). I lay out my dish-washing bona fides here, reader, not to establish my superiority at a menial task. You don't need me to tell you how to wash dishes (I definitely don't know everything). Yet, after all that time wielding high-pressure pull-down sprayers and staring down towers of soiled stainless cookware, I come to you with a simple suggestion. Now that you're home more and perhaps trying out some new things in the kitchen, throw away your scouring sponge and your bristle brush and invest in a $5 pot scraper. This tweet is a shameful admission: I ran the dishwasher at the smart home with regular dish soap and then I had to leave and then all the suds overflowed. pic.twitter.com/Q4Dy848mM7 — Rich Brown (@rh_brown) March 4, 2020 A pot scraper, if you're unaware, is a thin piece of usually nylon plastic with a beveled edge. It often has a thicker piece of plastic wrapped around its top edge as a grip. With a pot scraper, you can remove seemingly any cooking matter that has baked or dried onto a pot. My kids, 3 and 8, are made almost entirely of my wife's macaroni and cheese. Homemade mac and cheese requires a turn in the oven, which of course results in a crust of burnt cheese stuck to the rim and sides of the baking dish. Mostly she uses an enamel-lined cast-iron dish for mac and cheese, but sometimes she uses glass. A bristle brush might get the pot clean eventually. Soaking the dish with water and dish soap can help, but inevitably it ends up transferring the leftover cheese and sauce to the bristles themselves, which you then have to clean separately or else end up with a rotten crud wand stinking up your sink. This is dumb. It also takes longer than using a scraper, and it wears out the brush bristles since you have to really bear down to get everything up. 10 things you shouldn't put in your dishwasher 11 Photos With a scraper, you can soak your dish first. Or not. Whether it's glass or enameled cast iron or stainless, your scraper doesn't care. Does it need elbow grease? It might, but you won't hurt your scraper if you really lean into it. To clean it, you simply wipe off whatever food remains with your finger and flick it into the sink. Hit it with a soapy sponge and some hot water if you must. Done. Hate scrubbing eggs off your frying pan? A scraper will deal with those eggs. Burnt-on pie filling or barbecue sauce? Caramelized onions from a roasted chicken? A scraper will clean off all of that. There is no soap receptacle to deal with on a scraper. It doesn't retain odors. It doesn't get in the way of your faucet handles or need a hook to hang from like a bristle brush does. It won't scratch your nonstick coating. I'll end with an anecdote from the kitchen of that summer camp. We had just served macaroni and cheese for dinner. I was on pots that shift, which meant hand-washing a stack of commercial baking pans, each one caked with burnt-on bechamel, cheese and flecks of prison-grade pasta. That day, I scrubbed. I had a scouring sponge and a box of soapy steel wool pads for when things got rough. I scrubbed and scrubbed and an hour later I was the last one in the kitchen. My colleagues had departed to sneak a cigarette or run around outside with some unappreciative children. It was me, one pan, and the corner of a pasta elbow that had somehow fused with the stainless steel pan. It wouldn't come off. Three scrapers for under $10 Amazon These will do the trick. $9 at Amazon My instructions were to clean all the pans. This pan wouldn't clean. I contemplated taking the pan and burying it in the woods. Instead, I left that pan and that bastard piece of pasta to soak overnight. I came back in for the breakfast shift. The pan was still there. I poured out the water and picked at the macaroni husk with my finger. It wouldn't come off. I scrubbed again. Nothing. I sighed, put the pan aside and turned my attention to a baking sheet covered in sausage grease. Had you eaten whatever the chef made in that pan next, you might have tasted a hint of soapy gluten. If I'd had a pot scraper, I might have saved you. CNET Smart Home See All • reading Ode to the $5 pot scraper • Mar 27 How to keep your bread fresh for longer • Mar 27 The best Wi-Fi extender for almost everybody • Mar 27 The best coffee grinder you can buy right now • Mar 26 9 online cooking classes to keep you full and fulfilled Comments CNET Smart Home Notification on Notification off Smart Home Close Discuss: Ode to the $5 pot scraper Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.