https://www.cnet.com/news/want-to-die-on-mars-we-discuss-on-the-next-cravecast/
Want to die on Mars? We discuss on the next CraveCast - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Want to die on Mars? We discuss on the next CraveCast All the cool space-geek kids are signing up to die on Mars these days. The CraveCast crew discusses Mars One, what Neil Armstrong kept from the moon and more this Tuesday at noon PT. Eric Mack February 23, 2015 9:55 AM PST Martians tend to see red before they die. Mars One In the next episode of the CraveCast, we're going back to space, where we'll discuss mapping the dark side of the moon, dying on Mars and the things you find in Neil Armstrong's closet. We'll also leave time to talk about our latest sci-fi obsessions inspired by space exploration. And speaking of dying, at least one of us can't stop thinking about a mummified monk found inside a Buddha statue. Recent CraveCasts What the CraveCast lost and found in space The CraveCast learns what Mark Zuckerberg is really made of 2014 the year of the Geek? A CraveCast discussion As always, be sure to mark your calendars to watch live and join in the conversation with Crave's Kelsey Adams, Stephen Beacham, Bonnie Burton, Eric Mack, Jeff Sparkman and Michelle Starr, starting at noon PT on Tuesday, February 24. You can tweet your comments and questions before or during the show to @crave and @EricCMack, or leave a comment at the bottom of this post. Watch the show live starting at noon PT on Tuesday by returning to this page, where the video will be embedded below, or watch via YouTube or Livestream and join in the live chat room. Meanwhile, to get prepped, check out all our previous shows, including last year's space episode. Livestream The CraveCast fails to grasp the desire to die on Mars Your browser does not support the audio element. Comments Farsighted Crave NASA Space Star Wars Notification on Notification off Sci-Tech Close Discuss: Want to die on Mars? We discuss on the next CraveCast Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.