https://www.cnet.com/news/fcc-rakes-in-45-billion-from-wireless-spectrum-auction/
FCC rakes in $45 billion from wireless spectrum auction - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In FCC rakes in $45 billion from wireless spectrum auction The record-breaking auction highlights the demand for high-speed wireless service and signals strong promise for the upcoming auction of TV broadcast spectrum. Marguerite Reardon January 29, 2015 1:07 PM PST The Federal Communications Commission raised a record-breaking $44.9 billion in a wireless spectrum auction that officially ended Thursday. The spectrum in this most recent auction is considered mid-band spectrum and sits between 1700MHz and 2100MHz frequencies. James Martin/CNET The high dollar figure in the auction for the so-called AWS-3 swath of airwaves is significant because it shows just how valuable wireless spectrum has become as more Americans use Internet-enabled wireless devices to do more things that require faster networks, such as watching streaming videos. It also means more cash in the government's pocket, a consequence that should please lawmakers, who authorized the wireless auction and an upcoming auction of TV broadcast spectrum as part of the payroll tax and unemployment benefits bill in 2012. "The results of this auction confirm the strong market demand for more spectrum," FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler said in a statement. "We are confident there will continue to be strong demand for valuable low-band spectrum that will be made available in the Incentive Auction early next year." The last major wireless auction the FCC held was back in 2008 when the agency raised $19.1 billion selling a set of spectrum used by TV broadcasters. Spectrum bought in that auction by companies such as AT&T and Verizon has become the basis for new 4G LTE networks. The 700MHz spectrum sold in the 2008 auction was considered beachfront property because its low frequency allows for wireless signals to travel longer distances and penetrate obstacles like walls, providing excellent network coverage inside and outside. The newly concluded auction covered what's considered midband spectrum, sitting between the 1700MHz and 2100MHz frequencies. This type of spectrum is not considered as valuable as low-band spectrum, such as the TV broadcast spectrum, because signals travel shorter distances than over lower frequency spectrum. For this reason, the record-breaking revenue raised for this auction has surprised many experts, and it bodes well for the incentive spectrum auction of TV spectrum in the 600MHz band set for 2016. Funding for FirstNet The FCC, which started the auction on November 13, had set a goal of raising at least $10.6 billion for the sale of 1,600 licenses. But it became clear early in the bidding process that this goal would be surpassed. This auction and the upcoming auction of TV broadcast spectrum were authorized to help raise money for the federal government, including the funding of FirstNet, a nationwide public safety network that uses spectrum from the 700MHz spectrum auction. This auction easily met the $7 billion obligation to pay for FirstNet. "This AWS-3 auction was a major win for consumers, innovation and public safety," Rep. Doris Matsui, D-Calif., said in a statement. "The auction generated $44.8 billion -- enough to fully fund FirstNet, the nationwide interoperability network for America's first responders and public safety officials." Specific results of the winning bidders in the auction have not been released yet, but they could be made public as soon as Monday. Bidding in the auction was anonymous; however, it's believed that the two largest wireless operators, AT&T and Verizon, walked away with the lion's share of the licenses. In fact, these two companies could be spending between $15 billion and $20 billion each for the licenses, according to equities analyst Craig Moffett of MoffettNathanson in a research note published last week. Moffett also speculated that AT&T likely bid slightly more than Verizon. AT&T and Verizon have been raising debt and selling assets to pay for the new licenses they have bid on at auction. AT&T is also in the midst of acquiring satellite TV provider DirecTV, as well as two smaller wireless carriers in Mexico. Verizon, which was the only wireless operator to win a nationwide license in the 700MHz auction in 2008, is expected to use the midband spectrum it has won in this auction to add more capacity to its network. This will allow the carrier to offer the faster speeds on its 4G LTE network to more customers in dense urban markets and allow those customers to do more bandwidth-intensive things without hiccups, like watching video on their smartphones and tablets. It could take some time before wireless operators can put their new spectrum to use. The Department of Defense is using some of the frequencies that were sold for things like missile guidance systems and drone training programs. The agency has said some of these programs may take five to 10 years to relocate to other spectrum. While several smaller carriers, private equity firms and even individuals also participated in the auction, many experts are curious to see how much spectrum satellite TV provider Dish Network won in the auction. Dish has been acquiring wireless spectrum in other deals and is potentially poised to build a wireless network of its own that could rival those of the major cellular operators. "The key actor here is Dish Network," Moffett wrote in his research note. "Everyone wants to know whether Dish was bidding to win or just bidding to raise prices (or even not bidding at all)." Comments Internet FCC Notification on Notification off Networking Close Discuss: FCC rakes in $45 billion from wireless spectrum auction Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.