https://www.cnet.com/news/polaroid-takes-the-analog-digital-with-onestep-plus-instant-film-camera/
Polaroid takes the analog digital with OneStep+ instant film camera - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Polaroid takes the analog digital with OneStep+ instant film camera A new app keeps Polaroid relevant for 2018. Katie Collins August 29, 2018 10:33 AM PDT Leer en español Katie Collins/CNET Now playing: Watch this: Polaroid's OneStep+ is a solid app-connected analog camera... 2:02 Think analog photography is dead? Think again. Ten years ago, a plucky group of Polaroid fans founded the Impossible Project to keep their favorite form of photography alive after Polaroid announced it was shuttering its film factory. Initially the Impossible Project just made film, but in 2017, the same year its largest shareholder bought the brand and intellectual property of the original Polaroid company, the Impossible Project released its first camera with Polaroids Originals branding: the OneStep 2. This year it's back with the OneStep+, a camera that retains the essence of the OneStep 2 but adds a number of features that'll keep it relevant for 2018's digital natives. These are centred around the Polaroid Originals companion app that links with the camera via a dedicated "+" button next to the lens. Hit the button and the camera links seamlessly with your phone via Bluetooth. Bluetooth connectivity adds new digital features to the analog camera. Katie Collins/CNET The app has a number of features, including a remote trigger, a self timer, double exposure, light painting (which utilizes your phone's flashlight) and a noise trigger. For the those who want to get even more experimental, there's also a manual mode, which lets you play with the shutter speed, aperture, flash and eject (allowing you to manually do double or even triple exposures if you prefer). Unlike with a digital camera, you obviously can't play around with these manual settings until you get the desired effect, without getting through a whole bunch of Polaroid film. To make this less daunting, the Polaroid app also contains a number of tutorials and magazine segments offering inspiration to help you get the most out of your camera. The rainbow stripe is a new addition. Katie Collins/CNET A scanner within the app also uses your phone's camera to help you upload the best quality digital copy of your analog photo. It might sound counterintuitive, but it creates a gallery of all your artwork on your phone. It's also designed to make it easier to share your work on social media if that's your bag. One issue with a Polaroid is that usually only one person gets to keep the print -- this way any number of people can at least have a digital version. Other than the digital elements, the OneStep+ is almost identical the OneStep Two. Almost the only discernible difference is a rainbow stripe down the faceplate, which harks back to the design of the original OneStep camera from 1977. There's also a switch just on the top of the camera that lets you toggle back and forth between two lenses -- one specifically designed for portraits, which can be used from as close as a foot away. You can toggle between lenses. Katie Collins/CNET The Polaroid Originals OneStep+ camera will be available direct and from wider retailers, priced at $160 in the US or £150 in the UK. The free Polaroid Originals app will be available from both Google Play and Apple's App Store. Comments IFA 2019 Apple Notification on Notification off Cameras Close Discuss: Polaroid takes the analog digital with OneStep+ instant film camera Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.