https://www.cnet.com/news/equifax-twitter-fake-support-site-breach-victims/
Equifax sends breach victims to fake support site - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Equifax sends breach victims to fake support site Can you tell the difference between equifaxsecurity2017.com and securityequifax2017.com? One is a lookalike support page set up to teach Equifax a lesson. Alfred Ng September 20, 2017 12:58 PM PDT A tweet from Wednesday sending breach victims to the mock support site. Twitter/Screenshot by Alfred Ng Now Equifax knows what it's like to have its identity stolen. The credit monitoring company has been tweeting out a link to victims of its massive breach that's actually a fake support page set up to look exactly like its own. The real Equifax support URL is equifaxsecurity2017.com. But since Sept. 9, two days after the breach was announced, Equifax has also been tweeting out the spoof page at securityequifax2017.com. Now playing: Watch this: Equifax breach: Were you one of the 143 million affected? 1:29 Although Equifax's Twitter account used the proper URL most of the time, the mock page was sent out in tweets from the account at least seven times. Those tweets have since been deleted, but one from Monday was still up at about 11 a.m. PT Wednesday. Equifax didn't respond to a request for comment. The mock page looks exactly like Equifax's support page, but with a few significant details changed. At the top of the fake page, Nick Sweeting, the site's creator, asked, "Why did Equifax use a domain that's so easily impersonated by phishing sites?" Sweeting bought and registered the spoof domain name the same day Equifax announced the breach. In the 11 days since then, he said he's received more than 100,000 hits on his fake URL. The software engineer said it only took 20 minutes to build an exact copy of Equifax's website. It cost him $15 for domain hosting and server maintenance. Sweeting said he did it to teach Equifax a lesson about its vulnerable URL and how easy it was to spoof. Equifax data breach Your guide to surviving the Equifax data breach Equifax reportedly suffered a hack earlier than disclosed Equifax hackers possibly pilfered 200,000 credit cards at once His mock website doesn't steal any data, but he said it can be turned into a malicious page for phishing attacks in two minutes. That's scary given that Equifax's support webpage asks for six digits of your Social Security number and your last name to find out if you were breached. "I can guarantee there are real malicious phishing versions already out there," Sweeting said. He's not surprised his spoof page received so many views. Cybercriminals have been taking advantage of Equifax's breach by pretending to be helping. On Sept. 14, the Federal Trade Commission put out a warning that scammers were calling people pretending to be from Equifax to steal personal information. There's been a lot of scrutiny over how Equifax is handling the breach. Politicians like Sen. Elizabeth Warren ,D-Mass., and Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va., have demanded answers from Equifax on how the breach happened. Equifax CEO Richard Smith is expected to testify before Congress on the breach. Sweeting has no plans to take his fake page down. After all, he paid to own the domain name for a whole year. "I hope the intern who posted the tweet doesn't get fired," Sweeting said. "The real blame lies with the people who originally decided to set the site up badly." The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter. iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet. Comments Equifax Hacking Notification on Notification off Security Close Discuss: Equifax sends breach victims to fake support site Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.