https://www.cnet.com/news/7-free-video-chat-apps-to-use-while-youre-social-distancing/
10 free video chat apps to use if you're social distancing - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. 10 free video chat apps to use if you're social distancing Stuck at home due to the coronavirus pandemic? Use these videoconferencing options to keep in touch with family, friends and your workplace. Alison DeNisco Rayome March 26, 2020 4:00 AM PDT Leer en español Best for calling friends (on Apple devices) FaceTime Jump to details See at FaceTime Best for calling friends (on mobile devices) WhatsApp Jump to details See at WhatsApp Best for group chats Skype Jump to details See at Skype Best for sending video messages Marco Polo Jump to details See at Marco Polo Best for Facebook addicts Facebook Messenger Jump to details See at Facebook Best for business purposes Zoom Jump to details See at Zoom Best for Office 365 fans Microsoft Teams Jump to details See at Microsoft Best for playing games together Houseparty Jump to details See at Houseparty Best for Google and G Suite users Google Hangouts Meet Jump to details See at Google For AWS users Amazon Chime Jump to details See at AWS Show more (5 items) For the most up-to-date news and information about the coronavirus pandemic, visit the WHO website. The coronavirus pandemic and quarantines have led companies to implement work-from-home policies, and many people to cancel travel plans and generally stay home when they can. But staying home still may mean you need to get work done, or want to communicate with friends and family. Thankfully, there are several solid video chatting and conferencing apps available that can help you keep in touch with everyone you need to -- many of which are free. It should be noted that most of these apps have seen security-related issues in the past, which the companies that own them (including Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Google) have since patched. While the videoconferencing app or service you use for work likely depends on what your company has signed off on, if you're looking for a good option, check out the following seven free videoconference and video chat apps. Read more: How to stay healthy and entertained at home during the COVID-19 pandemic Coronavirus updates FDA warns at-home coronavirus tests are unauthorized and fraudulent Zoom has been a chaotic beacon of light during the coronavirus lockdown FBI says beware of stimulus-package scams Snowden says government surveillance amid COVID-19 could be long lasting Best for calling friends (on Apple devices) FaceTime César Salza/CNET FaceTime is Apple's proprietary video calling app. If you have an iPhone, iPad or Mac, it operates seamlessly, letting you start a video chat with any of your contacts (so long as they are also Apple device users) the same way you would a phone call or text message. While FaceTime's primary purpose is video chatting, as its name suggests, you can also do audio-only calls if you're in a place with a Wi-Fi or data connection but poor phone signal. With the release of iOS 12 in 2018, Apple also added a Group FaceTime option, allowing you to chat with up to 32 people at once -- assuming they all have Apple devices, of course. Read more: Best FaceTime alternatives for video calls See at FaceTime Read more: Zoom, Skype, FaceTime: 11 tips for your video chat apps Best for calling friends (on mobile devices) WhatsApp Angela Lang/CNET The Facebook-owned messaging app WhatsApp has more than 2 billion users worldwide. It's easy to use, and works on Android and iOS devices. WhatsApp offers end-to-end encryption, which means that only you and the person you're sending a message to can read what you send. You can use it to send messages, or make video or audio calls. Its global popularity makes it a great option for keeping in touch with family and friends worldwide. See at WhatsApp Best for group chats Skype Angela Lang/CNET Skype -- owned by Microsoft -- is available for iOS, Android, Windows and Mac, and offers video and audio calling, as well as a messaging feature. It has an easy-to-use interface, and supports up to 50 people on the same audio call (the number of video callers depends on what device you're using, according to the company). Skype also lets you record, save and share your video calls, and has live captions and subtitles. See at Skype Best for sending video messages Marco Polo Marco Polo If you want to video chat with someone but can't do so in real time -- perhaps they have a busy work schedule, or live in another time zone -- Marco Polo is the app for you. You can send video messages to individuals or group chats, which the other parties can watch and respond to at their leisure. Unlike Snapchat, Marco Polo saves all of your video messages so you can revisit conversations, and doesn't limit your video time. You can also add fun filters and voice effects if you want to mix up your conversations. See at Marco Polo Best for Facebook addicts Facebook Messenger Angela Lang/CNET Facebook's Messenger app is primarily used for sending messages, but also includes a video chat option, making it a convenient choice for those who are on the social media platform all the time anyway. If the person you want to talk to is also a Facebook Messenger user, you can initiate a video or audio call with them through the app. And like on Facebook's main app and Instagram, you can also add a temporary photo or video to your Story on Facebook Messenger. See at Facebook Best for business purposes Zoom Zoom Zoom offers video and audio conferencing, chat and webinar features across mobile devices, desktops, phones and room systems. It offers a free basic tier that allows you to host up to 100 participants and unlimited one-to-one meetings. It does place a 40-minute limit on group meetings, however. Zoom also has small and medium business versions, as well as an enterprise version, which cost $20 a month per host. If your organization does not use any videoconferencing service and you're looking for a professional option while you're working from home, at least in the short term, Zoom could be a good one for you. See at Zoom Read more: How to change your Zoom background like everyone else is doing right now Best for Office 365 fans Microsoft Teams Microsoft For companies that run on Office 365, Microsoft Teams brings together chat, video meetings, audio calling and Office apps like Word, Excel and PowerPoint into one hub for teamwork. If you have Office 365, you already have teams, but if you don't, there is a free version available. Microsoft also rolled out updates in March lifting user limit restrictions on those free versions, and is also offering a six-month free trial of its enterprise software suite Office 365 E1 for businesses not already licensed for Teams. Otherwise, Office 365 business plans that include Teams start at $5/user/month. See at Microsoft Read more: How to get Microsoft Office 365 for free Best for playing games together Houseparty Houseparty Houseparty is a video chat app owned by Fortnite developer Epic Games that lets you play popular games like trivia and Heads Up! with friends virtually through its interface. The app has seen massive growth in downloads since the start of March, according to data from Sensor Tower. Houseparty is available for iOS, Android, MacOS and Chrome. See at Houseparty Best for Google and G Suite users Google Hangouts Meet Google Google's Hangouts Meet is a videoconferencing tool integrated into the G Suite platform that allows people to hop on meetings via a web link through their laptop or mobile app, or a phone line. If your organization uses G Suite, you can create that link directly through a Google Calendar invite. It's a solid free option for easy business chats if you already use G Suite. See at Google For AWS users Amazon Chime Getty/S3studio Amazon Chime is the tech giant's communications service that lets you meet, chat and place business calls both inside and outside your organization in the same app. It runs through Amazon Web Services, the company's cloud computing platform. The service operates on pay-per-use pricing, so you can switch between basic features with no charge and professional features that come with a price tag as you need them. AWS is offering free use of all Amazon Chime Pro features for online meetings and video conferencing from now through June for all customers that start using the service for the first time from their AWS account. See at AWS More coverage at CNET • How to prepare and stock up for a coronavirus quarantine • How to stay sane and productive when working from home • How to protect yourself from the coronavirus • 10 ways to help avoid coronavirus when you have to leave the house • Skype vs. Zoom: Which video chat app is best for working at home? • Apple's 32-person FaceTime chats could ease self-quarantine loneliness • Tips for virtual dating in the age of coronavirus and social distancing • Working from home: This invaluable Google Docs feature keeps you from losing your work • Grow an herb garden while you're social distancing • Save the the world as a tech-savvy spider in Apple Arcade's new game Comments CNET Apps Today Mobile Software Mobile Apps Health and Wellness Coronavirus Facebook Google Skype Apple Notification on Notification off Microsoft Close Discuss: 10 free video chat apps to use if you're social distancing Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.