https://www.cnet.com/news/leggy-dalek-and-dapper-time-lord-battle-in-japanese-doctor-who/
DIY Dalek and dapper Time Lord battle in 'Japanese Doctor Who' - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In DIY Dalek and dapper Time Lord battle in 'Japanese Doctor Who' Dalek with legs? Cybermen in Spandex? Sonic Screwdriver as a sword flute? Crave chats with the "Japanese Doctor Who" filmmaker Joshua Kahan about why he gave the popular British sci-fi show the Tokusatsu touch. Bonnie Burton September 1, 2014 10:07 AM PDT Listen - 03:05 This Time Lord is ready for battle in his retro threads in "Japanese Doctor Who." Video screenshot by Bonnie Burton/CNET Whovians have paid tribute to the British sci-fi series "Doctor Who" by making their own fan films for decades. The iconic show has been re-imagined as a cartoon, as anime, and even as a musical mashup with Sherlock. So why not as a Japanese sci-fi superhero show? London-based filmmaker Joshua Kahan pays tribute to the older "Doctor Who" series from the 1970s and '80s as well as the live-action Japanese sci-fi genre known as Tokusatsu in his video, "Japanese Doctor Who." Related stories Fan creates adorable animated tribute to 'Doctor Who' How to turn yourself into a 'Doctor Who' alien Affirmative! 'Doctor Who' fans reenact favorite moments Outrun daleks in the Doctor Pacman Flash game The video, which he shot in 4:3 aspect ratio to give the video a vintage appearance, features a suave-looking Time Lord, an angry Dalek with legs called Dalekor, and his Cybermen henchmen. The sound design includes sampling from various episodes of retro Tokusatsu shows "Kamen Rider X" and "Supaidaman" (Japanese Spider-Man). Any Whovian worth their sonic screwdrivers know that the Cybermen are not supposed to be working for the Daleks, but in this parody they have teamed up to rid the universe of the Doctor. "I approached the project from the theoretical mindset of if I were Japanese TV exec and I were making a version of 'Doctor Who; and had no knowledge or care about the show, what are the most superficially iconic things about the show that I can use as a starting point for something that clearly isn't 'Doctor Who' and involves transforming heroes and giant robots?" Kahan told Crave. "To me Daleks and the Cybermen are the most iconic villains," Kahan added. "They're also both robots so it weirdly makes sense teaming them up. I am also aware that they're not exactly friends, which was another reason to pair them up. I thought it would be funnier." The costumes made for the parody harken more to the original "Doctor Who" episodes, rather than the current "Doctor Who" series which clearly has a bigger budget. Daleks and Cybermen work together in "Japanese Doctor Who." Video screenshot by Bonnie Burton/CNET "Dalekor's armor was forged in the fire pits of Skarros, his birth planet, from assorted utilities -- a plunger, ping pong balls, a dustbin and plastic tubing," Kahan told Crave. "What else would a person need to create the armor for such an evil monster?" "The Cybermen, designed by the vile Davronicus -- scientist Lieutenant to the M.A.S.T.E.R., are the foot soldiers of the Machine Monster Empire," Kahan told Crave. "They are made from conquered or captured species that have then had their personalities wiped and their bodies warped and replaced with deadly cybernetic parts. To a regular Joe, they appear to be constructed from black zentai suits and chrome spray painted alien masks." The Doctor was outfitted in a costume that befits his debonair personality. "What does the pimpest, coolest, suave-est guy that given the opportunity any right thinking man circa late '70s early '80s would want to be?" Kahan told Crave. "The answer was Banba Sokichi aka Big One from J.A.K.Q. -- the second 'Super Sentai' series. His costume was pretty much spot on, the only thing he was missing was a Sonic Screw Sword." You heard right. Instead of the Doctor's traditional Sonic Screwdriver, this Doctor has a Sonic Screw Sword that he plays like a flute which obliterates Dalekor. Sadly, Kahan has no plans to make more episodes of "Japanese Doctor Who." We'd love to see his take on other "Doctor Who" characters like the Ood, the Weeping Angels and the Sontarans. But Kahan assures us that more parodies of other franchises are on the way. Currently, he's hard at work on his next projects -- a "Star Trek" musical and a children's parody book called "See Tom Cruise Run." Comments Crave Culture Notification on Notification off Doctor Who Close Discuss: DIY Dalek and dapper Time Lord battle in 'Japanese Doctor Who' Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.