https://www.cnet.com/news/fancy-coffeemakers-for-brewing-right-at-home/
High-end drip coffee makers for brewing right at home - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In High-end drip coffee makers for brewing right at home From the almost robotic to sublime unions of form and function, there's sure to be a coffee maker here with your name on it. Brian Bennett May 24, 2018 11:00 AM PDT Enlarge Image Modern coffee makers have really upped their games in terms of design and performance. Tyler Lizenby/CNET Modern drip coffee makers have gone far beyond your old Mr. Coffee. The countertop brewers you can buy today range greatly in terms of features and abilities. Some are built with a laser-like focus on brew quality and not much else. Others are packed with electronic smarts, all in the name of tailoring coffee to your tastes. Still more coffee makers claim to automate the artisanal pour-over process offered by skilled baristas. You'll find coffee makers here that come in some truly striking styles and make quite a fashion statement, too. Read More: Best Coffee Makers for 2019 Read More: Coffee accessories you never knew you needed While it's certainly true these gadgets are much more expensive than basic coffee makers, if you care about the taste of your coffee, you'll find some here that truly justify their added cost. Here's a rundown of recent coffee brewers we've reviewed to help you find a product that best fits your personal java needs. High-end drip coffee makers that take brewing seriously 10 Photos Enlarge Image The Behmor Brazen Plus offers tons of brewing control. Tyler Lizenby/CNET Behmor Brazen Plus If you're the kind of person who loves to play with as many aspects of the coffee-brewing process as possible, then the $229 Behmor Brazen Plus is right up your alley. This compelling machine lets you tweak variables such as water temperature and presoak time for your grounds, and even adjust for your current altitude. Be aware that the Brazen does have a few drawbacks, namely it takes a relatively long time to create slightly smaller pots of joe. The coffee maker's thermal carafe cools quickly as well, dropping below 150 degrees Fahrenheit (65.6 Celsius) in two hours. Read CNET's full review of the Behmor Brazen Plus. Read more: The best coffee grinders you can buy right now Enlarge Image Tyler Lizenby/CNET Bonavita Connoisseur Currently our favorite drip coffee maker, the $190 Bonavita Connoisseur has brewing performance to match even the most expensive Technivorm Moccamaster machines, yet costs two-thirds the price. For that, it earned a CNET Editors' Choice award. A followup to the Bonavita BV1900TS, the impressive appliance is also compact, has few parts to clean, and it's a breeze to operate. In fact, its only downside is the Connoisseur's rather safe aesthetic design, which pales in comparison with hand-built coffee makers from rival Technivorm. Read CNET's full review of the Bonavita Connoisseur. Enlarge Image Brian Bennett/CNET Bonavita Metropolitan If you're on the hunt for an affordable, automatic drip coffee maker, then the $100 Bonavita Metropolitan should be on your short list. It offers the same excellent coffee-making abilities of the Connoisseur but at a lower price. You do make some trade-offs though, such as a glass (not thermal) carafe and a plastic exterior. That said, this coffee maker is just as compact as the Connoisseur and whips up pots of delicious joe just as fast. Read CNET's full review of the Bonavita Metropolitan. Colin McDonald/CNET Bunn Velocity Brew BT Big, blocky, and devoid of buttons, the $170 Velocity Brew BT from Bunn doesn't look like much. Under its monolithic surface, however, beats the heart of a true coffee-brewing champion. As its name suggests, the machine whips up hot pots of coffee in an amazingly swift 3 minutes and 33 seconds. It also treats grounds well, and consistently transformed our challenging test beans into a beverage that was quite delicious. If you're into high home appliance style, however, the Bunn will be a letdown. Its flexible plastic parts don't convey luxury, not to mention that the machine's lack of controls and even a water-level indicator are very bare-bones. Read CNET's full review of the Bunn Velocity Brew BT. Enlarge Image KitchenAid's new Siphon Brewer uses an old technique. Tyler Lizenby/CNET KitchenAid Siphon Brewer Here's a contraption that looks more like ancient lab gear than a modern coffee maker, but rest assured the $250 KitchenAid is a potent coffee machine. Harkening back to the dawn of the industrial age, the Siphon harnesses the power of steam and vapor pressure to brew excellent pots of java. Part immersion brewer, part percolator, the Siphon quickly exposes its grounds to scaldingly hot water.The result of this volcanic yet entertaining process is a heady brew; bright and delicious, yet complex. Read CNET's full review of the KitchenAid Siphon Brewer. Enlarge Image Chris Monroe/CNET Oxo 9-Cup Coffee Maker Here's a premium drip brewer you might want to consider. The $200 Oxo 9-Cup Coffee Maker is one of the company's first stabs at an electric brewer. As such it isn't perfect. For example, it takes a little longer than we'd like to fill its pots. Also, the coffee it brews isn't quite as sublime as other high-end machines. That said, it does enjoy the SCA's (Specialty Coffee Association) "golden cup" certification. Its thermal carafe keeps contents hot for well over five hours, too. Read a full review of the Oxo 9-Cup Coffee Maker. Enlarge Image Tyler Lizenby/CNET Oxo Barista Brain 12-Cup Brewing System The Oxo Barista Brain 12-Cup Brewing System is much more than a simple drip coffee machine. It also functions as an electric kettle with a digital temperature control. Need hot water for specific types of tea? No problem, just set the temp to match what you plan to brew. The same goes for oatmeal, instant noodles and soups -- you name it. Read a full review of the Oxo Barista Brain 12-Cup Brewing System. The Ratio Eight has high style but a price to match. Tyler Lizenby/CNET Ratio Eight If there's ever a drip coffee maker that deserves to be described as over the top, the $580 Ratio Eight fits the bill. With a price tag approaching $600 ($640 if you count its optional Kone filter), this machine is staggeringly expensive. That said, its design also goes above and beyond, using premium materials such as black walnut wood, nickel ceramic, aluminium, and hand-blown glass. Attractiveness aside, the Eight brews extremely tasty coffee, too, and does its darndest to replicate fancy pour-over technique, complete with a built-in preinfusion mode. Read CNET's full review of the Ratio Eight. Megan Wollerton/CNET Technivorm Moccamaster KBG 741 AO In serious coffee enthusiast circles, the Moccamaster brand is a bit of a hallowed name. With the $330 Moccamaster KBG 741 AO, however, Technivorm takes a more playful and lighthearted tack, flaunting a retro-pink paint job, with numerous other pastel hues available as options. Despite its throwback color scheme, this is a coffee maker worthy of the Moccamaster moniker in more than high price alone. Indeed, the device has the chops to brew delicious pots of coffee time after time. Our only issues with this snazzy coffee maker were its slightly rougher brew compared with the manual drip-controlled Moccamaster. We also prefer that appliance's thermal carafe as opposed to the KGB 741 AO's thin glass pot. Read CNET's full review of the Technivorm Moccamaster KBG 741 AO. Megan Wollerton/CNET Technivorm Moccamaster KBT 741 The $300 Technivorm Moccamaster KBT 741 is one of the best coffee makers money can buy for many reasons. More a work of art than a kitchen appliance, this machine is not only constructed with eye-catching metal, geometric lines, and lots of negative space, it bubbles away gleefully while brewing. Oh, and yes, it makes truly incredible pots of coffee and keeps them hot for up to six hours, thanks to an excellent thermal carafe. Admittedly this Moccamaster's high price is its primary detractor though Technivorm backs the machine up with a lengthy 5-year warranty to help take a little of the sting out. Read CNET's full review of the Technivorm Moccamaster KBT 741. Comments Smart Home KitchenAid Notification on Notification off Coffee Makers Close Discuss: High-end drip coffee makers for brewing right at home Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.