https://www.cnet.com/news/get-into-composting-with-this-under-sink-option/
Get into composting with this under-sink option - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Get into composting with this under-sink option If you'd like to get into composting, this system helps by sorting food waste from sink water. Molly Price February 26, 2020 8:28 AM PST Listen - 00:55 The Sepura system fits beneath your sink attached to your existing plumbing. Molly Price/CNET This story is part of CES 2020, our complete coverage of the showroom floor and the hottest new tech gadgets around. Beneath the CES show floor, a startup wonderland displays the newest ideas from around the globe. Sepura, a sink-integrated composting system is one of those ideas. A $340 system that attaches to your existing plumbing, Sepura can hold 6 gallons of food waste. The system separates water from food sent down your sink's drain. It attaches with an adjustable pipe to fit most home plumbing, and you press the corresponding button on the countertop to run the system and separate food into the removable bucket below. The team at the show booth told us you can keep food in the container for up to one month, odor-free thanks to a built-in carbon filter. LED indicators let you know when the bucket it full and needs to be taken to your compost pile. Of course, there are some things you shouldn't compost, and you'll still need to haul out the food waste yourself, but Sepura helps beginners take the first step in getting into composting. The Sepura system is available for purchase now. Read more: The best water bottles in 2020 Now playing: Watch this: Sepura turns your garbage disposal into a composter 2:47 See also CNET's 20 favorite products of CES All the cool new gadgets at CES 2020 The Best of CES 2020 All of the new smart home products, from smart locks to the Alexa shower head TVs of CES: Impressive, expensive, and less practical than ever Full coverage of CES 2020 CES 2020 See All • reading Get into composting with this under-sink option • Feb 25 Sony Vision-S electric car stunned at CES, now in testing on public roads • Feb 8 This fitness tracker helps identify when your cat might be sick • Feb 3 Black Shark 2 Pro: We go hands-on with the gaming phone and its bonkers specs Comments CES 2020 CNET Smart Home Notification on Notification off Smart Home Close Discuss: Get into composting with this under-sink option Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.