https://www.cnet.com/news/report-apples-steve-jobs-subpoenaed-in-options-case/
Report: Apple's Steve Jobs subpoenaed in options case - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Report: Apple's Steve Jobs subpoenaed in options case The SEC isn't investigating Jobs--at least this time around--but they will depose him in their lawsuit against former Apple general counsel Nancy Heinen, according to Bloomberg. Tom Krazit September 20, 2007 4:09 PM PDT Apple CEO Steve Jobs will have to appear before federal investigators as part of the Securities and Exchange Commission's lawsuit against Nancy Heinen, Apple's former head lawyer, Bloomberg reported Thursday. In April, the SEC filed suit against Heinen and Fred Anderson, Apple's former CFO, charging them with orchestrating the backdating of stock options at the company. Anderson agreed to settle his suit with the SEC at the time it was filed, but the proceedings are under way against Heinen. Bloomberg's report said that the SEC is not opening an investigation of Jobs with this move, but that it wants his testimony in connection with the ongoing suit. An Apple representative declined to comment. Apple admitted last year that stock option backdating--the practice of selecting a favorable date for a stock option award--occurred at the company, and it took an $84 million charge to set the ledger straight. Jobs has never been charged with any wrongdoing in connection with the backdating, which is illegal if it's not properly recorded as an expense. Apple conducted its own investigation into the matter and cleared Jobs, even though it also said he was aware of the backdating and actually recommended some of the dates. An independent investigator hired by the company said Jobs did not benefit from the backdating (he never exercised the options, although he traded them for a restricted stock award), and that he was unaware of the accounting implications of backdating. The SEC's case has focused on Heinen's role in creating the minutes of an October 2001 meeting of Apple's board of directors that never actually happened. In the fall of 2001, Jobs and Apple's board haggled over the terms of an option grant to the CEO, specifically over the vesting terms of the agreement. According to the SEC's complaint against Heinen, the board approved a grant of 7.5 million options in late August, but Jobs' objections to the vesting terms of that grant delayed the final approval until December 18. Apple had missed a November deadline to report the terms of the August grant to the SEC, and it had entered a new fiscal year in October, so in December Heinen recommended an October grant date for this options package and had minutes created of a board meeting dated October 19 to finalize the grant. Of course, that grant wasn't finalized that day, and Apple's full board never met that day; the fake minutes weren't even created until 2002. The SEC has charged that Heinen was the mastermind behind the fake minutes, and falsified other meeting documents to cover the trail. So what does the SEC want from Jobs? It's important to note that he still hasn't been charged with anything. But he's going to have to testify under oath about the depth of his involvement in the entire stock option mess at Apple. That might finally clear his name of any suspicion, but it could also create serious problems for the company if anything surfaces that's contrary to Apple's public statements about his involvement. So far, Apple has been able to isolate its iconic CEO against fallout from the backdating mess. Executives at other companies have had to walk the plank even though the SEC didn't take any action against their companies, simply to limit damage to the company. Apple's board has said several times that it's confident Jobs did nothing improper, and given Jobs' importance to Apple it would be almost impossible for board members to ask him to leave and instantly crater the company's stock unless he's shown to have participated in anything untoward. This could have something to do with Fred Anderson's statements after he settled his suit with the SEC. Anderson has said that he did inform Jobs of the accounting implications of backdating in January 2001, around the time the first of the backdated grants awarded to Apple executives was approved. He said that Jobs had told him the board of directors had approved a grant date for an options package that actually wasn't formally approved until about a month later, and that he warned Jobs Apple would have to record an expense to account for the difference in the company's stock price between the two days. At the time Anderson released his statement Apple took great care to note that the SEC decided to file suit against just Anderson and Heinen, not Jobs. The SEC cleared Apple as a corporation, and didn't file suit against Jobs or any other member of Apple's executive team in April, but they didn't say they never would, either. If the report is correct, this isn't over for Apple. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Report: Apple's Steve Jobs subpoenaed in options case Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.