https://www.cnet.com/news/at-t-offers-free-wi-fi-to-laptop-wireless-users/
AT&T offers free Wi-Fi to laptop wireless users - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In AT&T offers free Wi-Fi to laptop wireless users Free Wi-Fi is on the way for laptop users subscribing to AT&#38;T's wireless data service. Marguerite Reardon May 20, 2008 4:21 PM PDT Laptop users subscribing to AT&T's 3G wireless data service can now get free Wi-Fi too at any of the company's 17,000 Wi-Fi hotspots throughout the country. AT&T announced the new perk Tuesday for Laptop Connect customers who pay $60 or more a month for the company's cellular data service that operates on its HSDPA and EDGE networks. The wireless market is heating up as carriers try to out-do one another. Last week, an AT&T executive said at an investor conference that the company is upgrading its HSDPA network to provide even faster network speeds to its data users. Today users who connect to AT&T's 3G network can expect to get download speeds between 400Kbps to 700Kbps. And once the software upgrade is complete using a newer version of the technology, those speeds could eventually be boosted to between 4Mbps and 6.6Mbps. AT&T's 3G network is already deployed in some 275 U.S. markets, and the company is expected to reach 350 markets by the end of the year. It's 2.5G EDGE service already serves roughly 13,000 cities, the company has said. So why does AT&T need to offer free Wi-Fi if it's already boosting 3G signals? One reason is that cellular coverage isn't everywhere. In some rural areas it's tough to get a signal. Another reason is that cellular service can often be weak indoors. Wi-Fi hotspots set up indoors can solve this problem. That's why AT&T has been beefing up its Wi-Fi business in public locations like Starbucks coffee shops, McDonald's restaurants, and Barnes & Noble bookstores. Some of AT&T's DSL customers can already get free Wi-Fi in these hotspots. AT&T's expansion of its free Wi-Fi service is now available only for its laptop data card users. It isn't yet available for smartphones, such as the iPhone. But the company has said that it will be coming later in the year. Earlier this month, there were reports from some iPhone users about free access to Wi-Fi in some AT&T hotspots. The company even posted something on its Web site saying that free Wi-Fi was coming for iPhone users, but it then took down the notice. A company spokesman told The New York Times, the language on the Web site was a mistake, but that free Wi-Fi for all Wi-Fi-enabled smartphone users is coming. Anyway, it makes sense for AT&T and other phone companies to offer free Wi-Fi to all its subscribers. On the wireline side of the business, it's a great perk for broadband subscribers and might even help the company win some new customers. Cablevision, a cable provider in the Northeast, is expanding its Wi-Fi hotspots as an added bonus for its broadband customers. On the wireless side of the business, Wi-Fi offers AT&T a great way to offload bandwidth-intensive traffic from its expensive cellular network. And it provides faster, indoor coverage for some customers. T-Mobile, the fourth largest cellular operator in the country, has also been using Wi-Fi to augment its wireless network. The company offers dual mode Wi-Fi/cellular handsets that allow people to switch seamlessly from Wi-Fi network to T-Mobile's cellular service. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: AT&T offers free Wi-Fi to laptop wireless users Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.