https://www.cnet.com/news/bill-seeks-to-curb-cell-phone-taxes/
Bill seeks to curb cell phone taxes - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Bill seeks to curb cell phone taxes Anne Broache January 5, 2007 12:58 PM PST Troubled by what they deemed a "hefty" load of state and local taxes on cell phone bills, four Republican senators have once again called for a temporary ban on certain new fees. The Cell Phone Tax Moratorium Act would bar state and local governments from imposing any "new discriminatory tax" that applies to mobile services, providers or property for a period of three years, according to bill text obtained by CNET News.com. That means governments would be allowed to levy new fees only if they applied them to more than just the wireless industry. According to the wireless industry, 14 percent of the average monthly cell phone bill is currently composed of state and local taxes and fees. The average sales tax rate, by contrast, is about 6 percent. "Excessive taxes dampen innovation, and are regressive, hitting the most vulnerable customers the hardest," Sen. John McCain, who introduced the measure on the first day of the 110th Congress, said in a statement. Similar language proposed by McCain passed by a 21-1 vote last year as an amendment to a massive communications bill, but that measure died before reaching a full floor vote. This time, the Arizona Republican, widely expected to seek the presidency in 2008, co-sponsored the bill with fellow party members Jim DeMint of South Carolina, John Sununu of New Hampshire, and Gordon Smith of Oregon. CTIA-The Wireless Association president and CEO Steve Largent applauded the effort, calling the current level of taxation "indefensible" for any product, "let alone one that allows more than 225 million Americans to constantly stay connected and in-touch with the world around them." The bill is one of a flurry of tax-related offerings that died in the last session but were revived on Congress's first day back in session. With Oregon Democrat Ron Wyden, McCain and Sununu also co-sponsored legislation that would make permanent a ban on Internet access taxes. Two separate but nearly identical proposals--one sponsored by a Democrat, the other by a Republican--are attempting to knock out the remaining federal excise tax on local telephone service. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Bill seeks to curb cell phone taxes Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.