https://www.cnet.com/news/jon-favreau-star-wars-tv-series-solo-premiere-return-of-the-jedi/
Jon Favreau's Star Wars TV series set after Return of the Jedi - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Jon Favreau's Star Wars TV series set after Return of the Jedi The show takes place seven years after the Battle of Endor. No word on whether there will be Ewoks. Amanda Kooser May 11, 2018 11:22 AM PDT Jon Favreau is very busy in the Star Wars universe these days. He voices a four-armed alien in Solo: A Star Wars Story and also recently signed on to write and produce a live-action Star Wars television series. Details have been pretty much nonexistent for the new show, but we now have a few straws to grasp at. Favreau shared some details about the show while attending the red carpet event at the Solo premiere on Thursday. Nerdist senior editor Dan Casey dropped the exclusive news on Twitter. Exclusive: @Jon_Favreau confirms that his live action #StarWars series takes place 7 years after Battle of Endor, between #ReturnOfTheJedi and #TheForceAwakens. Will feature all new characters, using cutting edge tech a la THE JUNGLE BOOK. Story coming to @nerdist... pic.twitter.com/iRyPS8hPDR — Dan Casey (@DanCasey) May 11, 2018 Favreau told Nerdist the series takes place seven years after the Battle of Endor, positioning it between Return of the Jedi and The Force Awakens on the Star Wars timeline. That gives the show several decades to play around with between the events of the original trilogy and where The Force Awakens picks up. Casey also reports the series will have new characters and use cutting-edge digital moviemaking technology like that seen in Disney's 2016 The Jungle Book reboot, which Favreau directed. Favreau also told the official Star Wars site he's already written half the season for the show. This may not be a lot of information to go on, but it's way more than we knew before. We could end up learning a lot about the missing years in a galaxy far, far away. In the meantime, Solo opens May 24 in Australia and May 25 in the US and UK. 2018 sci-fi, fantasy and geek movies to get excited about 87 Photos Comments TV and Movies Notification on Notification off Star Wars Close Discuss: Jon Favreau's Star Wars TV series set after Return of the Jedi Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.