https://www.cnet.com/news/best-gaming-keyboards-for-2020-razer-corsair-logitech-and-more/
Best gaming keyboard for 2020: Razer, Corsair, Logitech and more - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best gaming keyboard for 2020: Razer, Corsair, Logitech and more Upgrade from your standard keyboard and defeat your enemies, or at least make losing more enjoyable, with the finest switches, lights and knobs. Joshua Goldman March 14, 2020 4:18 PM PDT Razer Huntsman Elite Jump to details See at Amazon Logitech G Pro Jump to details See at Amazon HyperX Alloy FPS RGB Jump to details See at Amazon Corsair K70 RGB MK.2 Low Profile Jump to details See at Amazon Roccat Vulcan 120 AIMO Jump to details See at Best Buy SteelSeries Apex M750 Jump to details See at Amazon Mad Catz Strike 4 Jump to details See at Amazon Show more (2 items) Gamers have some excellent options to enhance any gaming experience without being prohibitively expensive, but the best gaming keyboard is going to be different for every style of gamer. One of the current best mechanical keyboards that won't make too much of an impact on the wallet is the Redragon K561 Visnu. This cheap mechanical keyboard sells for around $40. However, you will have to consider shelling out more money for features such as easy macro key setup, per-key RGB lighting, high-performance key switches, fully programmable buttons, discrete media controls and the best build quality to enhance your gaming experience. The best gaming keyboards that we have tested have made the grade for the list below. The new SteelSeries Apex Pro, which has RGB keyboard backlighting and adjustable per-key sensitivity, is currently on the bench and Logitech just announced the G815 and G915 wired and wireless low-profile keyboards, available with three switch types. Don't know membrane from mechanical switches? Head to the buying advice section following our picks for great gaming keyboard options below. Also, if you think any other mechanical gaming keyboard belongs here, let me know in the comments. Razer Huntsman Elite Sarah Tew/CNET If you're going to spend nearly $200 to find the best gaming keyboard, this mechanical gaming keyboard is our top pick at the moment for a great gaming experience, and a lot of it has to do with the lighting effects. It's a solid keyboard in design and performance with Razer's Purple optomechanical switches delivering fast response time performance and good typing experience if you like clicky, tactile feedback. There are media controls (though it would be nice if the icons on them lit up, not just the outside) and they're programmable just like all the other keys. Razer's Synapse software gives extensive control over the keyboard's setup, though you can stick to presets if you're not into tweaking settings. Along with the per-key lighting, there's also a band of light that goes around the outside of the keyboard and the included padded wrist rest, which magnetically attaches to the keyboard. The keyboard does eat up a second USB port on your computer, though, and there's no pass-through on the Huntsman Elite to make up for it. If that's important to you, go with Razer's BlackWidow Elite, which is about $50 less with a choice of switches. See at Amazon Logitech G Pro Sarah Tew/CNET Our current top ten-key-less (TKL) backlit gaming keyboard for the money. The G Pro is all about size, quick responsive speed and sturdiness of design. The Romer G Tactile switches give you just a touch of feedback without being clicky. The keyboard's made for esports, so it's fairly bare-bones, e.g. it has no media keys or wrist rest. But this backlight featuring budget gaming keyboard does have a removable USB cable for travel and three levels of height adjustment. And its body can stand up to getting knocked around. Logitech's G Hub software is straightforward to use so you don't spend a lot of time hunting for settings or control options. Attaching macros to the function keys is painless as well. See at Amazon HyperX Alloy FPS RGB Sarah Tew/CNET Just a good, solid keyboard design for fast responsive gaming and typing. The linear Kailh Speed Silver switches are quiet and smooth with a low actuation force and short actuation point so quick double and triple taps weren't a problem. Plus, swapping the stock keycaps for the new white pudding double-shot caps make it look amazing. The NGenuity software is easy to use with game presets and custom setups. You can store up to three profiles to the keyboard's memory, too. At just over $100, you don't get a wrist rest or discrete media controls, but it's one of the only ones here with a removable braided cable, and there's a USB pass-through for charging a phone. See at Amazon Corsair K70 RGB MK.2 Low Profile Sarah Tew/CNET One of the best gaming keyboards for shared spaces, the K70 uses quiet, linear Cherry MX Red RGB low-profile switches. That means you get the fast responsive performance of regular Red switches but without the high-profile keycaps, for a thinner, compact keyboard. In other words, it looks and feels more like a modern office keyboard with a more parallel hand position than your average mechanical gaming keyboard. There's per-key RGB lighting as well as textured keycaps for gaming, including one for the extra-large spacebar. There are LED backlit media controls along the top, so you can find them in the dark. And there's a USB pass-through. About the only place it feels like Corsair skimped was the included plastic wrist rest. Corsair's iCue software is one of the better packages for controlling lighting and programming keystrokes on the keyboard. Plus, if you have other iCue-enabled peripherals and components in your PC, you can control them all from this one application. See at Amazon Roccat Vulcan 120 AIMO Sarah Tew/CNET Roccat developed the switch for this mechanical keyboard, called Titan. It's a quiet, tactile switch with a well-defined bump when actuated with no wobble and is firm and responsive for gaming. The shallow keycap and switch design make it seem like the keys are floating above the metal chassis top, giving it the look and feel of an island-style keyboard. The Vulcan is fine for typing, too, but I liked it more for gaming. The company's Swarm software isn't as straightforward to use as others, but you'll find all the same sort of design tools for creating custom lighting setups and macros with different profiles. You can even make your key presses sound like laser blasts or a typewriter, among other things, through your speakers or headphones. And if you have other AIMO devices, the lighting can be matched between them. Other extras on this mechanical gaming keyboard include a knob that adjusts volume and the brightness for the RGB per-key lighting, and a wrist rest, although the latter is hard plastic and attaches loosely, so it can shift around some while gaming. See at Best Buy SteelSeries Apex M750 Sarah Tew/CNET If you're big into notifications and just generally doing more with the lights on your keyboard, the Apex M750 is worth a look. The company's Engine software lets you do all the typical lighting customization you'll get with other keyboards, but you can also install apps to give you light notifications for game chat platform Discord, display effects for your music or even convert an animated GIF for playback using the lights. The mechanical keyboard uses the company's linear QX2 switches, which I found good and fast for gaming and quick typing, thanks to their short actuation point and low force. However, while the switches themselves are quiet, there's a lot of clack when the keys bottom out, along with some noticeable wobble. The rest of the keyboard is fairly unremarkable, lacking higher-end touches like a braided cable, USB pass-through, discrete media controls or even adjustable feet. See at Amazon Mad Catz Strike 4 Sarah Tew/CNET The Strike 4 has the basic requirements for a higher-end decent gaming keyboard: Cherry MX Red switches, per-key RGB LED lighting and a metal body. The overall performance is solid due to those switches and the keys have just a little clack when they bottom out, so it's fast overall but quiet. The USB cable isn't removable, but it can be routed to left, center or right to help keep your desktop a little tidier. I lean more toward clean and simple designs, so I'm not crazy about the branding on the front. However, what might be a bigger issue is the front edge, which isn't straight and not an ergonomic design, so not all wrist rests will sit flush across the front. The software is the weakest link with the Strike 4, though. It looks like an OEM application that's been skinned for Mad Catz. This mechanical keyboard gets the job done, but it's pretty basic and takes some hunting that the software from other keyboard makers doesn't require. See at Amazon Just like picking out a new gaming mouse, getting the right gaming keyboard has a lot to do with personal preference (and budget). For instance, I like tactile switches -- ones where you can feel the actuation point -- but I don't care for clicky key switches that make a sound when actuated. Linear switches, like Cherry MX Red switches, don't have that tactile feedback, but because of their low force and smooth actuation they're preferred for gaming, especially where multiple taps of the same key are necessary. Also, some keyboards might feel great for gaming experiences, but you might not like them for day-to-day typing. For example, those same Cherry MX Red switches that are great for gaming might be too light for some typists. If you have a chance to test out different types of switches before you buy, I highly recommend it. You can check out this glossary of keyboard terms to help narrow your preferences. Now playing: Watch this: The best videogames of 2019 1:13 Why 2020 could be the best year for video games 40 Photos More gaming coverage at CNET The best gaming laptop performers of 2020 Best wireless mouse for 2020 Best gaming chairs we've sat in for 2020 The 30 best video games of the decade, ranked Best low-lag HDTVs for serious gamers Best gaming PCs for 2020 Best gaming PCs for 2020 Best gaming laptops for 2020 Best phone for gaming in 2020: Razer 2 vs. Asus ROG, Xiaomi Black Shark, Nubia Red Magic Mars Best TVs for gaming with low input lag Best gaming laptops under $1,000 to get in 2020 Best board games in 2020: Lord of the Rings, Mansions of Madness and more Comments Computers Gaming Accessories Gaming Amazon Asus Best Buy Logitech Razer Notification on Notification off Computer Accessories Close Discuss: Best gaming keyboard for 2020: Razer, Corsair, Logitech and more Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.