https://www.cnet.com/news/apple-launches-iphone-at-macworld/
Apple launches iPhone at Macworld - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Apple launches iPhone at Macworld Many thought that it would never happen, but today Apple launched the iPhone. To put it lightly, this has shaken CES to its core... Chris Stevens January 10, 2007 1:19 AM PST It will be remembered as the day that almost every Apple rumour on the Internet came true simultaneously. Perched on the edges of their seats, attendees at Macworld San Francisco watched Apple CEO Steve Jobs unveil the iPhone. The iPhone includes iPod features, a version of OS X and a new touch-screen gesture-based interface which drew the crowd to a standing ovation. Maintaining its tradition of religious secrecy prior to launch, Apple has today stunned the technology world with a product that could potentially do to the mobile phone market what the iPod did to MP3 players. Jobs' presentation could not have been in starker contrast to Bill Gates' keynote address at CES on Sunday. The show floor here in Las Vegas seemed to stop and hold its breath while the Apple frontman delivered his revelations and dozens of bloggers transcribed them in real time. While Gates talked of a fantasy future where schoolchildren would have 50 plasma TVs glued to their bedroom walls showing tropical fish screensavers, Jobs hadn't just imagined the future, he'd gone and built it. The iPhone's gesture-based interface is staggeringly innovative -- if you suspect us of hyperbole, check out the videos on Apple's site. Award winning iPod designer Jonathan Ives told the Macworld crowd, "It's not too shabby, is it?" That was perhaps the understatement of the decade. The phone runs a version of Apple's desktop operating system, OS X, and includes Widgets, Google Maps, the Safari browser and iTunes with CoverFlow. Apple has partnered with Google and Yahoo to bring maps and email to the device, which is set for US release in June and European release towards the end of 2007. The 4GB model will be priced at $499 and the 8GB model at $599 (about £250 and £300 respectively). Apple's sleek black phone casts a long shadow over CES, a show the company has always snubbed. While we have seen some wonderful innovation from smaller companies at CES, such as the Emtrace WidgetStation, almost everything in the Central Hall seems eerily familiar. Many of the big players such as Sony and Microsoft seem to have dusted off last year's stands, complete with products. The format war between HD DVD and Blu-ray remains unresolved, the PlayStation 3 remains largely unavailable and Windows Vista remains uninspiring and unlaunched in its consumer version. Motorola, in particular, must feel that Apple played a cruel joke on it with the abysmal Rokr E1. Those who doubted Apple had some agenda in crippling the Rokr should take a look at just how obscenely advanced the iPhone is. This is clearly a product that was in development for many years -- certainly not an evolution of the Rokr, and almost mocking in its superiority. Walking past the stands of the major phone manufacturers in Las Vegas this afternoon, there was a sense that they turned up to the wrong party. The real consumer electronics show is happening 560 miles away in San Francisco. -CS Comments Phones Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Apple launches iPhone at Macworld Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.