https://www.cnet.com/news/how-to-run-a-marathon-without-leaving-your-house/
How to run a marathon without leaving your house - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In How to run a marathon without leaving your house Love competing but don’t have the time or money to travel to races? Here’s how to compete remotely. Danielle Kosecki September 2, 2019 5:00 AM PDT These days, you don't have to travel to an event -- or even leave your house -- to compete in a race. Zwift It's a Thursday night and I'm racing my bike up a gurgling volcano on an island off the coast of Papua New Guinea. My quads are screaming but I can't slow down. I'm in first place and there's a woman right on my heels. I push to the top of the climb, knowing that if I can crest it first, I'll be able to cinch the win on the descent. And that's exactly what I do. After crossing the finish line -- ecstatic -- I gradually stop pedaling. My on-screen avatar does the same. I'm out of shape and have an expired racing license, but thanks to Zwift, a virtual training platform, I just completed my longest, hardest ride in months from the comfort of my home and I can't wait to do it again. Virtual racing may sound like an oxymoron -- after all, so much of what you stand to gain by racing comes from literally going toe to toe with your competitors -- but it's hard to argue against racing remotely when the alternative choice is often not to race at all. Now playing: Watch this: Apple introduces cycle and noise tracking for Apple Watch 2:44 Competitive athletes and fitness enthusiasts alike seem to agree. Roughly 1 million runners and cyclists have used Zwift since it officially launched in 2015 and it's just one of many virtual racing companies that have sprung up in the past five years. Whether you compete to win or are just looking for some extra motivation to stay fit, here's what you need to know before hitting the (virtual) starting line. What is virtual racing? Most virtual races function just like a traditional race: you pay a fee to complete a predetermined distance and if you're successful you (usually) earn some sort of reward. The difference lies in where you compete. Instead of traveling to a specific destination to race other people on a set course, you participate remotely. How does virtual racing work? There are a few different racing models offered across disciplines. Here are the two most common: Real-time races: In this format, an event starts at a specific time and anyone with a tracking device -- like GPS running watch or smart stationary bike trainer -- and an internet connection can participate remotely. An app or software program will show you where you are on the course and in relation to other competitors. Winners earn bragging rights or, in the case of Zwift, time in the saddle earns you points that unlock special features like new clothes for your avatar. Tri to Triumph virtual triathlon finishers receive a race shirt, bib, medal, and the opportunity to compete for additional awards on the company's virtual leaderboard. Tri to Triumph Flexible finishes: For these races, you pay a fee and sign up in advance -- some companies will even send you a race bib in the mail -- and then you complete the challenge as soon as you're able. Depending on the race, you may have the option to finish the distance in one go or break it up over the course of multiple sessions within a certain time frame (days, weeks, or months). When you finish, you submit your results. Some companies require electronic training files, others accept photos of your smartwatch or screenshots of tracking apps and some rely solely on the honor system. Often, participants times are added to a leaderboard and everyone who completes the challenge is mailed a finisher's medal or race t-shirt. If you are at all into Star Wars, check out the Star Wars virtual half marathon. Some real-life races also offer a virtual option, like the San Francisco Marathon, New York City Marathon, or the Star Wars Half Marathon. What are the benefits of virtual racing? First and foremost, virtual racing is super accessible. You don't have to travel anywhere or even leave your home. Can't handle hills? Choose a virtual race that lets you pick your own route. Virtual races also offer more flexibility to people with busy schedules or unpredictable work hours. They also tend to be cheaper. In addition to saving on things like travel fees and childcare, some virtual racing platforms let you pay a monthly fee for access to unlimited races. Others charge around $15 to $30 per event. Because virtual races allow you to compete solo, they're also great for intimidated beginners and people uncomfortable in crowds. Lastly, like traditional races, virtual races can serve as a goal that keeps you motivated to train and, during the event, an opportunity to push yourself harder than you normally would. More than 6,000 people from 73 countries participated in the 2019 World Rowing Virtual Indoor Sprint competition. Concept2 What are the disadvantages of virtual racing? There's a reason people love the Olympics: Traditional sporting events are exciting, intense and unpredictable. You lose a lot of that atmosphere with virtual races, especially if they're not live. It's also a lot easier to slack off or quit when there's no one watching. And if it's results you're after, keep in mind that fair play is harder to enforce when every competitor is remote. While you don't want to think people would cheat, it's always a possibility. The biggest disadvantage of virtual races, though, is probably the most obvious: You're paying to do something you could anyway for free. How do you join a virtual race? To log your progress during a Yes.Fit virtual race, you can either manually enter your results or use an activity tracker, including the one built into the Yes. Fit app. Yes.Fit You can target a specific event or stick with one platform. Either way, here are a few popular options across a variety of sporting disciplines divided up between real-time races and flexible finishes. Real-time virtual race platforms If you're a cyclist or a runner, Zwift runs multiple races at a variety of distances every day. RowPro is the closest equivalent for rowers. Want to set up your own running race and invite people to participate? The RaceRunner app will help you make it happen. Flexible finish virtual race platforms Organizations like New York Road Runners and World Rowing have started holding running their own virtual events, but for more options (in terms of sports, distances, and deadlines), a less high-profile organizer may be a better bet. The Yes.Fit app offers running, walking and cycling events spanning 20 to 120+ miles and can connect to 25 fitness trackers (Race at Your Pace and Virtual Pace Series are similar but completely web-based.) Swim the Distance gives you a month to complete the swimming challenge of your choice. And Tri to Triumph runs triathlons and duathlons. The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Notification on Notification off Health and Wellness Close Discuss: How to run a marathon without leaving your house Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.