https://www.cnet.com/news/how-to-make-your-own-weighted-blanket/
How to make your own weighted blanket - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In How to make your own weighted blanket Save yourself a few hundred bucks and make your own weighted blanket. Amanda Capritto July 11, 2019 5:30 AM PDT Many people use weighted blankets like this one from YnM to help themselves fall asleep faster and reduce anxiety. YnM If you have trouble sleeping, I'd be surprised if you haven't looked into weighted blankets yet. They've been used to soothe children with autism, treat ADHD, ease anxiety and mitigate insomnia due to a technique called deep pressure touch or deep pressure stimulation, similar to what happens during massage therapy. There are tons of these heavy blankets on the market and a handful of intriguing research studies showing that they really do work: People have reported feeling less anxious when using a weighted blanket, and others have reported getting better sleep. Too bad weighted blankets can cost you upward of $100. If you don't want to hand over that much cash for a blanket, you can try a budget-friendlier option that's tried and true for everything from birdhouses to blackout curtains: Make your own. Ready to snuggle up? Here are four creative ways to make your own weighted blanket. Not into DIY? Learn how to choose the best ready-made weighted blanket for you and check out the best weighted blankets to buy. How to get better sleep in 2019 29 Photos Before you start Regardless of which tutorial you choose for your DIY weighted blanket, keep a few general guidelines in mind: Make sure you have all your materials at hand before beginning. The last thing you want is to run to the store while your kitchen table is full of poly-fil beads. On that note, if you're worried about using the poly pellets that most tutorials recommend, check out this post from Mama Smiles that details a bunch of different weighted blanket filling options. Pay attention to the numbers. While it may be tempting to stuff as much filling into your blanket as possible, you only want it to be 10-15% of your body weight. Speaking of numbers, decide what size you want your blanket to be. It doesn't have to be as large as a comforter; it just needs to cover you or whoever will be using it. Practice safe sewing: Check out these safe sewing guidelines. 1. Make a weighted blanket quilt Most weighted blankets use polyester, plastic or glass beads to produce the heaviness. Mollie Johanson/The Spruce Of all the weighted blanket possibilities, a quilt-like version is probably the most popular. It seems to be the easiest way, so it's become a sort of standard in the weighted blanket world. Seriously, if you search for weighted blanket tutorials or just weighted blankets in general, they'll almost all look like quilts. This tutorial from The Spruce is very thorough, complete with photos for every step. It's not hard -- the lines on the quilt are already "drawn" for you. If you can operate a sewing machine, you can complete this weighted quilt tutorial. 2. Make a weighted fleece tie-blanket This mom presewed tiny bean bags of poly-fil beads to put inside her daughter's fleece weighted blanket. Parenting Chaos Not a fan of quilts? No problem. Parenting Chaos blogged a tutorial for a weighted fleece tie-blanket: You know, the colorful kind with frayed edges that everyone loved as kids. Bonus points if yours was embroidered with your initials. This blanket looks nothing like the quilt version -- it has no visible pockets -- and uses tiny presewed bean bags of poly-fil beads instead of pouring the beads openly into pockets. The best part? If you have kids, this weighted blanket can grow with them because it's relatively easy to do a little blanket surgery and add more bean bags. Making a duvet cover for your weighted blanket can help you avoid having to throw a 15-pound blanket in the washing machine. Cutesy Crafts 3. Make a weighted blanket with a duvet cover I don't have a weighted blanket, but I hear it's notoriously difficult to wash and dry them. Many people seem to get around that hurdle by purchasing weighted blankets that come with duvet covers, so they can just take the blanket out of the cover when the cover needs a wash. This tutorial from Cutesy Crafts takes you through a basic weighted quilt tutorial followed by a relatively simple tutorial for a large fleece cover. 4. Make a travel-size weighted blanket Fraser, a nonprofit for children with special needs, posted this tutorial for a travel-size weighted blanket as an idea to help parents soothe anxious kids. It uses standard-size pillowcases to make a sort of lap pad that children can carry. However, anyone can benefit from a weighted blanket and you could easily add more pillowcases to make a travel-size weighted blanket suitable for an adult. A smaller version of a weighted blanket would be great for long car rides, flights, train commutes or, honestly, any situation where you're cramped in a small area. More of a visual person? Watch this This YouTube tutorial from Man Sewing is the most comprehensive DIY weighted blanket video I could find in all of Internetland. Rob Appell, the YouTuber who runs Man Sewing, shot this video from all different angles to help viewers visualize all the steps. You'll notice that doesn't make a full-size weighted blanket. While you can make a full-size blanket from the steps in his tutorial, this can also serve as another tutorial for a travel-size weighted blanket. The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Health and Wellness Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: How to make your own weighted blanket Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.