https://www.cnet.com/news/track-sleep-with-your-apple-watch/
How to turn any Apple Watch into a sleep tracker - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In How to turn any Apple Watch into a sleep tracker Apple didn't include sleep tracking in the Watch Series 5. Fortunately, just about any Apple Watch model can track your sleep. Here's how. Rick Broida September 10, 2019 1:16 PM PDT Teach your old Apple Watch a new trick: how to track your sleep habits. Tyler Lizenby/CNET Well, so much for the rumor mill. Although we expected the new Apple Watch might include sleep-tracking features, the just-announced Apple Watch Series 5 has no such capabilities. Eh, no biggie -- I've been monitoring my sleep habits for a couple years already, thanks to apps that work with nearly every Apple Watch model. Best of all, the cost of doing so ranges from free to just a couple bucks. More from the Apple event iPhone 11: New wide-angle camera, 6 colors, faster Face ID for $699 Apple iPhone 11 event photos See all our event coverage I first wrote about this a couple years back, and in light of the above news, this seemed the ideal time for an update. If nothing else, now you know that you needn't hinge any Apple Watch purchase or upgrade plans on sleep-tracking alone. It all started when I was feeling unusually tired, which led me to ask my doctor what might be causing it. His first question: "Are you getting enough sleep?" Why, of course I'm getting enough... hmm, wait a second, am I? Apple Report All the latest Apple news delivered to your inbox. It's FREE! There's a related question: Am I getting good sleep? Well, I have an Apple Watch, and it can track my steps, heart rate, time spent standing and all that -- so maybe I'll just start wearing it to bed and get some answers. You know the punchline: The Apple Watch still doesn't do sleep-tracking, at least not out of the box. But there are many third-party apps that can fill in this gap, keeping tabs on how long you sleep and how well. Read more: The best health devices to use with your iPhone and Apple Watch Now playing: Watch this: Up close with the Apple Watch Series 5's always-on display 2:25 Sleep-tracking considerations: Bulk, brightness and battery Before we dive into the apps, let's look at a few key considerations. The first is that you'll need to wear your watch to bed, which can pose a couple problems. Never mind that it's a little uncomfortable until you get used to it, there's also the matter of the watch face lighting up when you make any upward arm movements. And if you think that face isn't bright when it's pitch-black, think again. The fix: Turn off the Wake Screen on Wrist Raise feature, which you can do by swiping up on your watch face and enabling Theater Mode. This disables raise-to-wake as well as notifications. Put your Apple Watch into Theater Mode before you go to sleep. Rick Broida/CNET A little tougher to manage is the battery issue. My watch usually has only about 30-40% remaining at the end of the day. If I don't top it off, I'll wake up with very little power left -- not nearly enough to get me through the day. The fix: When you wake up in the morning, toss the watch on the charger while you shower, eat breakfast and so on. After 30 minutes or so, it should have enough juice for the next 24 hours. Alternately, consider charging it while you're getting ready for bed, reading or whatever. The only catch is you have to remember to put it back on before nodding off. Sleep-tracking apps Bodymatters' free Sleep Watch app captures a wealth of sleep data and presents it for review on your Apple Watch. Bodymatters I spent some nights with three sleep apps for Watch OS. There are others, certainly, but I feel these are pretty representative of what's out there. Here's a quick overview of each. Note that CNET may receive a share of revenue from the purchase of any products listed here. AutoSleep Tracker ($2.99, £2.99, AU$4.49) Tracking sleep means wearing your watch to bed, right? Not necessarily: AutoSleep works even if you don't wear it some nights. When that happens, it starts tracking your hours as soon as you put the watch on the charger, then stops when you put the watch back on in the morning or you first use your phone. Of course, that's just time tracking -- the real benefits come from wearing your watch. When you do that, the app measures sleep hours and quality, restlessness, heart rate and more. And then it presents all that data using Apple Health-style visuals. Sleep Tracker Plus Plus ($1.99, £1.99, AU$2.99) Also known as SleepMatic for some reason, this inexpensive app is my current favorite, if only because I find its presentation of sleep data to be the clearest. At a glance, you get to see how much light sleep you got, how much deep sleep, how long it took you to fall asleep and so on. Another perk: a "smart" alarm can wake you up when the app detects you're in a light sleep phase, as opposed to your bedside alarm that might wrestle you from a deep slumber -- and leave you feeling groggy and angry. (No? Just me?) Sleep Watch (free) Bodymatter's Sleep Watch wins the "most improved" award, not only because it now does a much better job presenting sleep data, but also because it's now free. (It previously cost $5.) Well, "freemium": If you want access to premium features, there's a $2.99-per-month subscription option. Thankfully, you don't need that to squeeze plenty of helpful sleep data from the app. It measures not only total sleep time, but also restful sleep time, sleep rhythm, sleep disruptions, heart rate and more. Have you found an Apple Watch sleep app you like better than any of these? Tell us about it in the comments! Now playing: Watch this: 7 ways smart home devices can help you sleep better 3:16 As noted above, this post was previously published two years ago and has been updated to reflect new information. Health and Wellness See All • reading How to turn any Apple Watch into a sleep tracker • Mar 27 How to effectively clean the inside of your car if you're worried about COVID-19 • Mar 21 This is the gear you need to work from home • Mar 20 Google sibling Verily: Coronavirus website has led to over 130 tests so far • Mar 20 Google I/O is fully canceled, after earlier nixing the in-person event Comments Health and Wellness The Cheapskate Wearable Tech Sleep Fitness Notification on Notification off Apple Close Discuss: How to turn any Apple Watch into a sleep tracker Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.