https://www.cnet.com/news/fcc-chairman-comes-out-against-at-ts-t-mobile-buy/
FCC chairman comes out against AT&T's T-Mobile buy - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In FCC chairman comes out against AT&T's T-Mobile buy The Federal Communications Commission doesn't think that AT&T's proposed merger will be in the public interest and is calling for an administrative hearing. Marguerite Reardon November 22, 2011 1:00 PM PST The chairman of the Federal Communications Commission doesn't believe that AT&T's proposed $39 billion deal to acquire T-Mobile USA is in the public interest. And he's asking the other four commissioners to approve an administrative hearing, in which AT&T would have to prove otherwise. FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski The Wall Street Journal first reported on Tuesday that Chairman Julius Genachowski was considering such action. The move by the chairman would put yet another hurdle in the way of the merger, which is already being challenged by the U.S. Department of Justice. The DOJ has filed a lawsuit to block the merger. In a briefing with reporters, FCC officials said that their evaluation of the deal found that the merger between AT&T and T-Mobile would create an "unprecedented" level of concentration in the wireless market. Officials went on to say that it was impossible to see how the deal could serve the public interest. The FCC chairman has filed an order asking the other four FCC commissioners to vote to have an administrative law judge hear the case. In this proceeding, the FCC would present the findings from its analysis. And AT&T would be given an opportunity to prove its case. The burden would be on AT&T to prove that the merger with T-Mobile is in the public interest. FCC officials did not share many specifics from their report. But officials did say that their analysis shows that in 99 of the top 100 major U.S. markets, AT&T and T-Mobile are heavily concentrated in terms of customers. The only market where the two carriers do not exceed concentration limits is in Omaha, Neb., where T-Mobile doesn't operate its network. The agency used the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index to assess market concentration. In response to the chairman's filing, AT&T continued to defend the merger based upon the argument that with T-Mobile, AT&T will be able to expand its 4G LTE faster and will also create jobs. Related stories: • Justice Dept. to block AT&T's T-Mobile deal • AT&T to acquire T-Mobile USA for $39 billion • Union: AT&T's T-Mobile buy would create 100,000 jobs "The FCC's action today is disappointing," Larry Solomon, senior vice president of corporate communications at AT&T, said in a statement. "It is yet another example of a government agency acting to prevent billions in new investment and the creation of many thousands of new jobs at a time when the US economy desperately needs both." But FCC officials said that the public record doesn't reflect AT&T's argument that the merger will lead to wider scale 4G LTE deployment nor would it result in the creation of domestic jobs. Instead, the agency said its analysis shows that there could be massive job loss as a result of the merger. If approved by the FCC commissioners, the administrative hearing is not expected to start until after the Justice Department's trial against AT&T to block the merger, an official said. The DOJ trial is expected to start in February. If AT&T is able to strike a deal with the Justice Department to settle its lawsuit, the wireless carrier will have to refile its merger proposal with the FCC, which would then evaluate the new agreement. It's rare for the FCC to seek an administrative hearing on merger deals, such as this one. An official said the last time the agency called for such a hearing was in 2002 when it reviewed the merger between EchoStar and DirecTV. The companies eventually abandoned the deal. Updated 1:50 p.m. PT: This story has been updated with additional information from an FCC conference call and a comment from AT&T. Comments Tech Industry 4G LTE AT&T FCC T-Mobile Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: FCC chairman comes out against AT&T's T-Mobile buy Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.