https://www.cnet.com/news/at-t-to-congress-t-mobile-buy-good-for-consumers/
AT&T to Congress: T-Mobile buy good for consumers - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In AT&T to Congress: T-Mobile buy good for consumers The phone giant's CEO defends the proposed acquisition to lawmakers, who question the company about market concentration and potential job losses. Jay Greene May 26, 2011 9:54 AM PDT Executives from AT&T and T-Mobile visited Capitol Hill for the second time this month to defend the $39 billion deal announced in March in which AT&T would swallow its smaller rival and create a dominant wireless carrier with more than 129 million subscribers. Lawmakers don't have a say over whether the merger gets approved. That's up to the Justice Department and the Federal Communications Commission. But the House Judiciary Committee hauled the top executives from both companies as well as industry experts to Washington to explain how the deal could be good for consumers. "This transaction is all about consumers," said Randall Stephenson, AT&T's chairman and chief executive. "It's about keeping up with consumer demand. It's about giving consumers what they expect--fewer dropped calls, faster speeds, and access to state-of-the-art mobile broadband Internet service." At the same time, René Obermann, chief executive of T-Mobile parent company Deutsche Telekom, argued that the mobile carrier is struggling to compete against much larger rivals like AT&T and Verizon at the same time it tries to survive in an evolving marketplace against new technologies, including voice over IP services such as Skype. "T-Mobile has been caught in the middle of this dynamic marketplace and has had an increasingly difficult time competing," Obermann said. T-Mobile, he added, lost 471,000 customers in the last quarter alone. "I thank you for your evasiveness on this issue so I don't have to come back next year and say they promised not to cut jobs." --U.S. Rep. John Conyers (D-Mich.) Stephenson and T-Mobile USA chief executive Philipp Humm appeared before the Senate Judiciary Committee on May 11, making many of the same arguments. (See list of related CNET articles.) The executives faced the toughest questioning today from Rep. John Conyers, the Michigan Democrat who acknowledged at the very beginning of the hearing that he "never met a merger that I liked." Conyers opined that mergers always cost jobs, reduce competition, and hurt consumers. He commented that Stephenson never mentioned anything in his testimony about the impact of the deal on employment. "I thank you for your evasiveness on this issue so I don't have to come back next year and say they promised not to cut jobs," Conyers said. Stephenson later testified that there will be some short-term job losses in corporate functions that overlap. But, he said, history has shown that jobs increase within wireless mergers. AT&T has doubled the employees in its wireless division since it acquired Cingular, as part of its BellSouth acquisition. "There are redundancies," Stephenson said. "We will not need two finance organizations. We will not need two marketing organizations...(But) it should be a job creator. It always has been." The deal also faced some criticism from Andrew I. Gavil, an antitrust law professor at the Howard University School of Law, who's concerned about the growing concentration of power in the hands of just a few companies. He worries that market-leader Verizon, along with AT&T after it acquires T-Mobile, will be so dominant as to marginalize the only other major carrier, Sprint. The two large companies would have unprecedented power over the wireless industry. "I am deeply concerned that the proposed merger presents very substantial risks of anticompetitive effects across multiple dimensions of competition," Gavil testified. "Hence, the question I am asking myself, and the one I urge you to ask as well, is this: 'Why would we want to take the risk?'" Comments AT&T T-Mobile Verizon Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: AT&T to Congress: T-Mobile buy good for consumers Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.