https://www.cnet.com/news/lps-can-sound-better-than-cds-or-files-with-schiits-little-gizmo/
Thanks to this little gizmo, LPs sound better than CDs or FLAC files - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Thanks to this little gizmo, LPs sound better than CDs or FLAC files The Audiophiliac spends quality time listening to Schiit Audio's astonishingly great (and cheap) Mani phono preamplifier. Steve Guttenberg November 1, 2014 6:05 AM PDT The Schiit Audio Mani phono preamplifier Schiit Audio I've lost track of how many Schitt headphone amplifiers and digital converters I've reviewed, but their all-new Mani phono stage is a very different kind of product. Mani amplifies the miniscule voltages generated by a turntable phono cartridge so your LPs can be played over AV receivers, desktop powered speakers, boom boxes, etc. The little Mani's all-metal chassis measures a scant 5 by 3.5 by 1.25 inches (127x89x32mm). It works with moving-magnet (MM) or moving-coil (MC) phono cartridges. Mani has four user-selectable "gain" modes (30, 42, 47, and 59 dB), so it'll sound great with any cartridge you pair with it. Cartridge impedance loading can be set to 47 Ohms for moving-coil cartridges or 47,000 Ohms for moving-magnet cartridges. If you're using an AV receiver or a turntable with a built-in phono preamp the Mani would be a logical upgrade. Like every other Schiit product I've tested the Mani is made in California with a large percentage of US made parts, including precision film capacitors, thin-film resistors, and low-noise gain stages. The warranty runs two years. The Schiit Audio Mani rear panel Schiit Audio I used a Pioneer PLX-1000 turntable (look for my review next week) with a Shure M44-7 moving-magnet cartridge for the bulk of my listening tests. The Mani's sound was big and smooth, I heard a minimum of groove noises, clicks, and pops on my LPs. For comparison sake I brought out my NAD PP2i phono preamp, and it sounded clear and concise, but the Mani had superior resolution of the quieter details on my LPs. The "spaces" between the instruments were more clear cut; I heard more room sound, deeper reverberation, more of the subtle sounds that make LPs more involving to listen to than the best digital formats. I'm not kidding. The Shure cartridge is good for the money, but Zu Audio's DL-103 Mk.II moving-coil cartridge provided a more audiophile experience. That's an understatement, resolution jumped a couple of notches, soundstage depth improved, bass definition was better. The Mani was fully up to the job of revealing the differences between the two cartridges. To test my theory about LPs sounding better than CDs or high-resolution digital I compared Bob Dylan's "Oh Mercy" SACD (on my Oppo BDP-105 Blu-ray player) with my original, 25-year-old LP on the Pioneer turntable. The SACD sounded smaller, Dylan and the band were less present, and Tony Hall's nimble basslines were less nimble on the SACD. The LP had more weight, more gravitas, and the sound was more enveloping on LP. Dylan's scratchy vocals had a bit more body on the LP. So anyone hoping high-resolution formats will totally knock out LPs is dreaming; with a great turntable analog is fully competitive and possibly better than high-resolution digital. Other digital vs. LP auditions didn't alter my opinions about the virtues of 2014 vinyl playback. The Mani sells for $129 in the US; UK pricing runs £112 (including VAT), and it's AU$199 in Australia. Comments The Audiophiliac Audio Home Entertainment Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Thanks to this little gizmo, LPs sound better than CDs or FLAC files Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.