https://www.cnet.com/news/upping-the-ante-the-schiit-asgard-2-headphone-amplifier/
Upping the ante: The Schiit Asgard 2 headphone amplifier - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Upping the ante: The Schiit Asgard 2 headphone amplifier The Audiophiliac loved the original Asgard, the new Asgard 2 is still made in the U.S., it has more features and improved sound, but it's still $249! Steve Guttenberg September 21, 2013 7:36 AM PDT The original Schiit Asgard (left) and Asgard 2 (right) Steve Guttenberg/CNET Right, the name attracts a certain amount of attention, but Schiit is no joke. The California-based company made its name with the very first product, the little Asgard headphone amp, which I enthusiastically reviewed on this blog back in 2010. Since then more Schiit headphone amps and digital converters won raves from me. This time out we're back to the Asgard, in its revised Asgard 2 format. The price is still $249. The Asgard 2 adds preamp output jacks, so it can drive a stereo power amplifier or self-powered desktop monitors, like my Adam Audio F5s. When you plug in a set of headphones to the Asgard 2, the pre-out jacks are automatically muted. The original amp sounded great with full-size headphones, but didn't work so well with in-ear headphones, mostly because they usually have higher sensitivity and the old Asgard's background noise/hiss was audible. The Asgard 2 has no such problem; I used it with my Ultimate Ears and JH-Audio in-ear headphones and the amp was dead quiet. Asgard on the bottom, Asgard 2, top Steve Guttenberg/CNET Technically speaking, the Asgard 2's guts feature a high-voltage, JFET gain stage that feeds a high-current Class A MOSFET output section. Think of the Asgard 2 as a mini version of a high-end speaker amp, the little all-metal chassis runs warm to the touch, just like my big Pass XA100.5 amps that drive my Magnepan 3.7 speakers. The Asgard 2 measures a tidy 9 inches by 6 inches by 2.25 inches, and it weighs 5 pounds. You can stand it up on its side to minimize its footprint on your desktop. When I compared the original Asgard with the Asgard 2 with a set of AKG 712 Pro headphones, I can't say I heard a huge difference. The '2 sounds clearer and bass firms up a bit, but the basic character of the sound is the same. Hey, it was good to start with, so I'm not complaining. The higher-powered Schiit Lyrhad a bigger, fatter sound, the soundstage was bigger, deeper and more atmospheric. The Asgard 2's sound is leaner and crisper with my Beyerdynamic T90 high impedance (250 ohms) headphones. Switching over to my Hifiman HE-400 low impedance (50 ohms) 'phones, the sonic differences between the two amps stayed the same. They're different "flavors" of sound, but the Lyr is more costly; it's $449. Schiit products are made in the US, sold factory-direct with a 15-day money-back guarantee, and a five-year warranty. The Asgard 2's insides Schiit Audio In other Schiit news, the company is offering two upgrades for the $349 Bifrost digital converter. There's a new $150 USB Gen 2 plug-in board and an improved Uber Analog circuitry board that runs $100. I installed both at the same time, and the sound was radically improved. The Bifrost's transparency was always awesome, but it's bumped up a few notches, and drums and other percussion instruments' dynamic contrasts are more alive. I've used the Bifrost as one of my ongoing desktop references, so I think it's great that Schiit offers owners an upgrade path. Comments The Audiophiliac Audio Car Tech Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Upping the ante: The Schiit Asgard 2 headphone amplifier Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.