https://www.cnet.com/news/new-august-wi-fi-smart-lock-sleeker-smaller-wi-fi-built-in/
The new August Smart Lock: Sleeker, 45% smaller and Wi-Fi built-in - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In The new August Smart Lock: Sleeker, 45% smaller and Wi-Fi built-in It's been a while since August debuted any new hardware, but it's happening in 2020. Molly Price January 8, 2020 10:40 AM PST Molly Price/CNET This story is part of CES 2020, our complete coverage of the showroom floor and the hottest new tech gadgets around. August retrofit smart locks are popular, and for good reason. We gave multiple generations of August locks our Editors' Choice Award for their easy installation, great app and smart home integration. One of the few downsides to the retrofit lock was its size. The large, circular lock needs to mount on the inside of your door frame, where you'll see it all day. August is now addressing that problem with its fourth-gen Smart Lock, which is 45% smaller than its predecessors. It's called the August Wi-Fi Smart Lock. It feels smaller in my hand (a good thing, since I'm constantly lamenting the rise of mega-screen phones) but it's just as sturdy as its predecessors. The team, which includes renowned designer Yves Béhar, stayed true to the original design, while making small updates such as the pattern around the edge. That's now a noticeably grippier ridge design. Along that ridge is a cleverly placed August logo to help you tell whether your door is locked or not. On the inside, the August Wi-Fi Smart Lock is powered by two CR123 batteries. CNET Now All the latest tech news delivered to your inbox. It's FREE! Molly Price/CNET Beyond looking more discreet, the lock boasts something no August Lock to date can boast: built-in Wi-Fi. That means you won't need an August Connect to remotely monitor this smart lock or manage its access. I've seen a few other smart locks from big names like Schlage and Kwikset take this approach, and I'm glad to see it. Wi-Fi modules are clunky and take up too many outlets. "At August, we're constantly looking for ways to evolve what smart home access looks like and implement customer feedback -- a smaller design and an even simpler installation process have understandably made it to the top of our list," said Jason Johnson, August's founder and CEO. The August Wi-Fi Smart Lock in matte black. Tyler Lizenby/CNET The August Wi-Fi Smart Lock will be available later this year. We don't have an official price for the lock, but the August team tells me it will be similar to the August Smart Lock Pro, which currently retails for $229. I'd expect $249 might be more like it with the Wi-Fi built in. Lots is happening in the smart lock sector this year, from fingerprint locks to smart locks you can't even see. August's long anticipated new lock is well-timed. CNET's 20 favorite products of CES 2020 21 Photos See also CNET's 20 favorite products of CES All the cool new gadgets at CES 2020 The Best of CES 2020 All of the new smart home products, from smart locks to the Alexa shower head TVs of CES: Impressive, expensive, and less practical than ever Full coverage of CES 2020 CES 2020 See All • reading The new August Smart Lock: Sleeker, 45% smaller and Wi-Fi built-in • Feb 26 Get into composting with this under-sink option • Feb 25 Sony Vision-S electric car stunned at CES, now in testing on public roads • Feb 8 This fitness tracker helps identify when your cat might be sick • Feb 3 Black Shark 2 Pro: We go hands-on with the gaming phone and its bonkers specs Comments CES 2020 CNET Smart Home August Notification on Notification off Smart Locks Close Discuss: The new August Smart Lock: Sleeker, 45% smaller and Wi-Fi built-in Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.