https://www.cnet.com/news/healthy-eating-kitchen-tools/
5 kitchen tools that make cooking healthy meals easy - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. 5 kitchen tools that make cooking healthy meals easy A healthier life starts in the kitchen. Alina Bradford April 9, 2019 5:00 AM PDT Getty Images In 2018, when I announced to the world that I had lost 100 pounds, everyone around me wanted to know how I did it. Surprisingly, I found that a big part of my success came from a kitchen well-stocked with the right appliances and tools. Here are some kitchen items that can help you be a healthier you, too. Read: These kitchen gadgets help fight food waste and save money | The most fashionable lunch boxes of 2019 | Our favorite meal-prep containers will get you excited to make lunch | The best food and drink experiences to gift this holiday 2019 | Best meal-prep containers 2019 | Best healthy food delivery services Fruit and vegetable juicer Get your veggies Chris Monroe/CNET It's no secret that adding more fruits and vegetables to your diet is good for you. One of the easiest ways I've found for supplementing your diet is juicing. Drinking a juice full of fruits and veggies is just a whole lot easier for me than sitting down to a plate of the stuff. You'll want one that can juice as much of the fruit or vegetable as possible, leaving very little waste behind. Here are five things you need to know before buying a juicer and here's our juicer review guide so you can compare models to find the best one for your needs. Once you have one, make sure to check out our eight dos and don'ts for juicing. Read our review of our favorite model. $269 at Amazon 15 essential tools every kitchen needs 15 Photos Instant Pot Healthy food faster Josh Miller/CNET If you find yourself eating out a lot, then there's no better appliance to buy than an Instant Pot. I've found that it makes cooking so easy, I don't need to order out on busy days and I end up eating foods that are much healthier. This pressure cooker, slow cooker, steamer and yogurt maker all-in-one appliance can cook a full pot roast in the same amount of time it takes me to go and pick up my teen from school and run a few errands. You just pop food and the right amount of liquid in, press the right button and you'll have dinner on the table in under an hour. Not convinced? Here's five reasons why you should own an Instant Pot. CNET's Instant Pot Smart Wi-Fi Review. $99 at Amazon June Intelligent Oven Kitchen smarts Tyler Lizenby/CNET Like the Instant Pot, the June Intelligent Oven makes cooking super easy, so you'll be more likely to actually do it instead of relying on fast food. Think of it as an automated countertop oven. Using cameras and it's built-in computer, the June can recognize the foods you put in it and provide you with step-by-step directions for cooking it -- including selecting the right temperature and cook time. It's especially great if you have very little culinary skills, but want to cook healthy meals. The June Oven also air fries. Air frying lets you use just a little bit of oil to "fry" up a nice, crispy pan of fries or wings, making them healthier than deep fried. I'm well aware that at $600, the June Oven is steep. But, if you avoid making healthy meals because you don't have the skills, the June can help out. Read our review. $599 at June Reliable pots and pans Cooking basics Getty Images If you haven't noticed by now, if cooking is even a slight hassle, I probably won't do it. In addition to some great appliances, reliable cooking tools makes the process of cooking healthy meals easier, and more doable. High on the list of must-haves are a sturdy sheet pan, a large saute pan and a roasting pan with a lid, all of which help you cook healthy meals. Here are some tips for choosing the right pans. A chef's knife Prep right Victorinox Another must-have tool is a good knife with multiple uses to make prep easier. CNET's sister site recommends purchasing a high-quality chef's knife because it has a wide range of uses. The better the quality, the easier it is to keep sharp, which mitigates prep frustration. Quality chef knives typically cost more than $100, but if you're just starting to cook for yourself, you can get away with one that's around $50. $41 at Amazon The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Healthy Eating Appliances Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: 5 kitchen tools that make cooking healthy meals easy Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.