https://www.cnet.com/news/pc-market-growing-at-healthy-clip/
PC market growing at healthy clip - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In PC market growing at healthy clip Hewlett-Packard expands lead in overall market, while Acer and Lenovo continue to battle for the No. 3 spot. Erica Ogg November 29, 2007 11:17 AM PST Hewlett-Packard extended its lead in the worldwide PC market in the third quarter, increasing its shipments at more than twice the rate of the rest of the industry. Shipments from all manufacturers increased to 68.1 million, or 13.8 percent, from the previous year, and 11.1 percent from the previous quarter, according to iSuppli, a market research company that tracks the PC industry. The third quarter is traditionally a good one for computer makers because of increased purchases during the back-to-school buying season. HP's shipments gave it claim to 19.2 percent of the PC market, followed by Dell at 14.6, Lenovo at 8.1, Acer at 7.9, and Toshiba at 5.3. The numbers from iSuppli essentially mirror the reporting done by analyst firms IDC and Gartner last month. Though HP now owns more than 19 percent of the market, and Dell accounted for 14.6 percent of all PC shipments, the gap between the two U.S. PC makers isn't actually that close. While HP delivered another solid quarter--it's the company's fifth straight as the global PC leader--Dell's growth continued to lag. Dell shipped 9.9 million PCs in the third quarter, up from 9.7 million in the same quarter a year ago. That's a mere 1.5 percent growth rate, far below the industry average of 13.8 percent and drastically behind that of HP (32 percent growth) and Taiwan's Acer (68.8 percent growth). Acer continues to blow the rest of the industry out of the water, based largely on its ability to ramp up its notebook shipments. Though still in fourth place behind rival Lenovo, Acer has increased its market share from 5.4 percent a year ago to 7.9 percent today. iSuppli predicts that Acer will likely overtake Lenovo next quarter due to Acer's purchase of Gateway, and strength in the notebook market. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: PC market growing at healthy clip Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.