https://www.cnet.com/news/ps5-and-xbox-series-x-are-cool-but-show-me-the-games/
PS5 and Xbox Series X are cool, but show me the games - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In PS5 and Xbox Series X are cool, but show me the games Commentary: We're in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic. Can you just show us the games please? Ian Sherr March 19, 2020 5:00 AM PDT The Xbox Series X Joshua Mobley / CBSi Schools around the world are shut down, as are many shops in large cities. The San Francisco Bay Area is on lockdown. Parks across the country are closed. Millions of people are stuck at home, anxious about the coronavirus pandemic, hungry for a proper distraction from grim reality. So why are Sony and Microsoft spending so much time talking about the intricate specs of their upcoming PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X instead of showing us some exciting new games? More than 650,000 people tuned into YouTube Wednesday to watch Sony's "The Road to PS5" presentation by Sony designer Mark Cerny. In it, he went deep into the minutiae of the specs for the company's upcoming PlayStation, which like the Xbox, is coming this fall. Now playing: Watch this: Xbox Series X vs. PlayStation 5: it doesn't matter 4:47 He discussed things like "command buffers," "system memory," "CUs," "compression" and other terms unlikely to register with anyone other than the most hardcore fans. Instead, most people will only care about what Sony and Microsoft will likely say on the box: The new devices offer roughly twice the power of their predecessors. What Sony didn't do Wednesday, nor did Microsoft do when revealing its Xbox specs Tuesday, was to actually show off any games. We don't even know how much these new consoles will cost yet, or their official launch dates other than, "holiday 2020." "There will be lots of chances later on this year to look at the PlayStation 5 games," Cerny said when starting his presentation, suggesting he realized his audience may have been expecting more. "Today, I want to talk a bit about our goals for the PlayStation 5 hardware." Sure, the talk had been planned for the Game Developers Conference, originally scheduled for this week until it was postponed amid fears of the coronavirus. So it's no surprise Cerny's talk would be in the weeds. If we weren't in the middle of a pandemic, Cerny's presentation would have been perfectly appropriate and even expected. But instead, it came off as a miss considering that, in addition to developers, many gamers whose schools have closed are stuck working from home or are unable to work at all and were tuning in to find something to get excited about. Many commenters watching along began complaining they were bored, typing "Zzzzzzzz," as Cerny talked through almost 20 sections of his presentation discussing storage technology and how files will be organized on the PS5's SSD (that's solid-state drive, for the uninitiated, which is where game files are often stored). Sony's PS5 reveal wasn't well received by everyone. Sony / YouTube We've been hearing about Sony's PlayStation 5 and Microsoft's Xbox Series X for over a year now, but we've barely heard about any of the games. It's time for that to change. With people stuck inside as governments battle the novel coronavirus spreading around the world, it's on entertainment companies like Sony and Microsoft to step up their game. And the easiest way to do that would be to stop talking about what these devices are, and instead to show off what they can do. So far, we've only seen a few examples. Enlarge Image Microsoft gave even more details about the insides of the Xbox Series X this week. Microsoft Microsoft has shown off Halo: Infinite, the latest in its blockbuster space age action series. It's also shown off Senua's Saga: Hellblade II, a sequel to Hellblade: Senua's Sacrifice, a popular hack-and-slash horror game from 2017. Sony, meanwhile, hasn't announced any PS5-specific games from its studios. Instead, it's opted to show off how it makes older titles, like the popular action game Marvel's Spider-Man, faster to load. On top of that, Sony's and Microsoft's new consoles are coming at a time when players can access their games from a wide variety of places, not just the large plastic and metal PlayStation and Xbox devices they typically plug into their TVs. Smartphones are increasingly more powerful, attracting popular games like Fortnite, a free-to-download shooter that's become a cultural phenomenon. There are also services such as Nvidia's GeForce Now, Google's Stadia and Microsoft's Project xCloud that use streaming technology similar to Netflix to allow people access to some of the most popular console games on a phone, cheap laptop or tablet connected to the internet. All that means Sony and Microsoft have to work that much harder to convince people their devices will be worth buying. And in the end, that means they need to show off compelling games we can play. And only on those devices. Rough starts The action game Ryse: Son of Rome looked great, but wasn't well received. Josh Miller/CNET The last time Sony and Microsoft launched new game consoles, the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One both in 2013, they trotted out a small lineup of games to go with them. Among them were the so-so-rated fighting game Killer Instinct and shooting game Killzone: Shadow Fall. There was also the even worse-received action title Ryse: Son of Rome, which was praised for its stunning visuals, but criticized for pretty much everything else. "Ryse is all sizzle and no steak, a stunning visage paired with a vapid personality," GameSpot's Mark Walton said in his 2013 review of the game. This time, the companies are unlikely to repeat that kind of disappointment. Both Sony and Microsoft have promised their libraries of games made in the past eight years, and even some older ones, will work on the new devices out of the box. Additionally, some games aimed for older consoles, like CD Projekt Red's adventure title Cyberpunk 2077 and Microsoft's Minecraft, will have support for the next-generation consoles. But that doesn't mean Sony and Microsoft should hold back. In this unprecedented time, when we're all under quarantine or warned to stay away from each other for fear of spreading a nasty virus, it would be nice for the game companies to offer us a little more steak than sizzle. Why 2020 could be the best year for video games 40 Photos E3 2020 See All • reading PS5 and Xbox Series X are cool, but show me the games • Mar 18 Doom Eternal: Customizable Slayer, PC specs and everything else we know • Mar 14 SXSW, E3 canceled • Mar 13 E3 canceled: Here's what Microsoft, Ubisoft and others are doing Comments E3 2020 Culture Tech Industry Gaming Google Microsoft Notification on Notification off Sony Close Discuss: PS5 and Xbox Series X are cool, but show me the games Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.