https://www.cnet.com/news/star-trek-fans-are-not-pleased-about-the-new-us-space-force-logo/
Star Trek fans are not pleased about the new US Space Force logo - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Star Trek fans are not pleased about the new US Space Force logo President Trump reveals a new logo that looks a lot like the beloved Starfleet Command logo. George Takei and Mark Hamill react. Bonnie Burton January 24, 2020 8:39 PM PST Leer en español Listen - 01:48 A face palm from Star Trek: The Next Generation's Capt. Picard. Paramount Someone working for the US Space Force must be a Trekkie. Star Trek fans say a new logo is a direct ripoff of Star Trek's Starfleet Command logo. President Donald Trump revealed the new logo for the Space Force on Friday via Twitter. After consultation with our Great Military Leaders, designers, and others, I am pleased to present the new logo for the United States Space Force, the Sixth Branch of our Magnificent Military! pic.twitter.com/TC8pT4yHFT — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 24, 2020 "After consultation with our Great Military Leaders, designers, and others, I am pleased to present the new logo for the United States Space Force, the Sixth Branch of our Magnificent Military!" Trump tweeted. As soon as it was posted, eagle-eyed Star Trek fans responded, pointing out the logo's similarities to the Starfleet Command logo. The arrow, the swirl around the arrow, the star background and text placement are almost identical. The new Space Force logo is pretty much a straight up ripoff of the Starfleet Command logo. https://t.co/kONtG3GDbt pic.twitter.com/TuFcV3MSbJ — Josh Rogin (@joshrogin) January 24, 2020 In the Star Trek universe, Starfleet is the uniformed space force maintained by the United Federation of Planets as the principal branch that conducts deep-space exploration, research, defense, peacekeeping and diplomacy. As expected, Star Trek fans -- even Star Trek actor George Takei and Star Wars actor Mark Hamill -- had a few things to say about the new design. "There is nothing sacred any more," tweeted George Takei, who later elaborated on the US Space Force in a Washington Post commentary titled "The Star Trek vision was hopeful. Trump's is the mirror image." Tweeted Mark Hamill, "Just another Star Trek rerun." "A whole lot of Trekkers with Starfleet bumper stickers are about to be charged with stolen valor," a user tweeted, while another fan tweeted, "Look it was inevitable and we could do worse than emulating Starfleet." There is nothing sacred any more. pic.twitter.com/ubyy4OIZrp — George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) January 24, 2020 I guess these didn't make the cut? pic.twitter.com/w3MA7U1G4T — George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) January 24, 2020 #JustAnotherStakTrekRerun pic.twitter.com/ObI1aOOXOI — Mark Hamill (@HamillHimself) January 25, 2020 A whole lot of Trekkers with Starfleet bumper stickers are about to be charged with stolen valor. https://t.co/BUxztH3OKL — Peter A. Shulman 📚 (@pashulman) January 24, 2020 Look it was inevitable and we could do worse than emulating Starfleet TBHhttps://t.co/9tXD0UUBdB — Molly McKew (@MollyMcKew) January 24, 2020 The Starfleet logo is actually based on the Space Force logo because Starfleet won’t be founded until 2130 — Jack Posobiec🇺🇸 (@JackPosobiec) January 24, 2020 Retconning the birth of Starfleet is gonna take a LOT of work in the next Star Trek series. https://t.co/pHbJN19leU — Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) January 24, 2020 Donald Trump decided to rip off his Space Force logo from Gene Roddenberry and Star Trek, one day after everyone just watched Star Trek Picard and got reminded of what the Starfleet logo looks like. Trump is the world's dumbest criminal, and it's not even close. — Palmer Report (@PalmerReport) January 24, 2020 The Starfleet fascination among space types in the military isn't new; this was Space Command's logo, which immediately preceeded Space Force pic.twitter.com/Ap3y5gHEWD — Kelsey D. Atherton (@AthertonKD) January 24, 2020 Starfleet called. They want their insignia back. pic.twitter.com/yDCrdjlCT0 — Hil.i.am (@hilaryluros) January 24, 2020 We'd like to be Starfleet but we're definitely the Cardassians — oʇʇᴉɥɔɔǝʌ (@vecchitto) January 24, 2020 The United States Space Force Starfleet Command is making waves in the Universe! The Klingons have posted a reaction vid to the news. #StarTrek #StarTrekUniverse pic.twitter.com/5yOMjhJS4b — HouseofM (@hofmcincy) January 24, 2020 The Space Force didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. On Jan. 17, the US Space Force was mocked for revealing designs of camouflage uniforms, which made Star Wars fans wonder if they were for soldiers headed to the forest planet of Endor. USSF officially launched in December 2019, when Trump signed into law the 2020 National Defense Authorization Act. Now playing: Watch this: Will Trump's Space Force really protect us all? 1:31 Originally published Jan. 24, 4:06 p.m. PT. Comments TV and Movies Online Mark Hamill Military Space Donald Trump Notification on Notification off Star Trek Close Discuss: Star Trek fans are not pleased about the new US Space Force logo Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.