https://www.cnet.com/news/best-buy-wants-macs-in-more-of-its-stores/
Best Buy wants Macs in more of its stores - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Best Buy wants Macs in more of its stores The consumer electronics retail giant hopes to have Macs inside of 500 stores by this time next year, Best Buy executives said to a UBS analyst at CES. Tom Krazit January 9, 2008 11:29 AM PST Apple's store-within-a-store partnership with Best Buy is going to expand this year, according to Best Buy executives. So says UBS analyst Ben Reitzes, who met with Best Buy during the Consumer Electronics Show this week in Las Vegas. Best Buy wants to have Macs inside 500 of its stores by February of next year, up from around 270 stores at present. The Blue Shirts already sell iPods in about 900 stores, but the Mac operation is a little different. Best Buy allows Apple to set up its own retail space within its stores in an attempt to re-create the Apple retail experience inside of Best Buy. The strategy seems to have paid off for both companies, as Mac sales have risen sharply in the last year, while Best Buy continues to dominate the U.S. electronics retail market. The less-heralded, but very visible, part of Apple's success over the past three years has been its retail operation, which no other company in this industry--save perhaps Sony--can match. While other PC companies fight for space on the stark shelves of Best Buy and Circuit City, and smart-phone makers are mostly shackled to the carriers, Apple is able to define and control almost all aspects of how a consumer discovers, explores, and purchases its products. And the rise of that retail operation coincided nicely with an overall trend away from direct sales of PCs through companies like Dell to a preference for retail purchases, which even Dell has had to acknowledge. Of course, Apple can't hope to match Best Buy's scale as the largest electronics retailer in North America, so these store-within-a-store partnerships are a good compromise. Apple gets to define how customers experience its products while gaining access to a broader network of stores in locations where Apple won't venture, while Best Buy gets additional foot traffic. It will be very interesting to see if the two can keep that kind of special arrangement as Apple's Mac market share grows, one of just many challenges for Apple, as it scales that business. It's not hard to imagine Best Buy's larger partners, such as HP and Acer, starting to grumble about such an arrangement, if Apple starts taking more and more business away from them through these in-store partnerships. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Best Buy wants Macs in more of its stores Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.