https://www.cnet.com/news/how-to-make-the-best-cold-brew-coffee/
How to make the best cold-brew coffee - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In How to make the best cold-brew coffee Whipping up your own cold-brew coffee is easy and delicious -- and it saves you money. Brian Bennett May 24, 2019 11:59 AM PDT Chris Monroe/CNET Now playing: Watch this: Make your own delicious cold-brew coffee at home 1:28 Once you taste really good cold brew, it's very hard settling for ordinary iced coffee. That's especially so when the weather gets hot and steamy. Coffee shops and gourmet grocers are aware of cold brew's charms, and they now charge a premium for it. My local Starbucks charges $3.98 for cold brew (for comparison's sake, that roughly converts to £3.10, AU$5.75), an extra 64 cents on top of their already pricey $3.34 large iced coffee. Adding "house-made vanilla sweet cream" brings the cost up to $4.51. Now consider that a 3-pound bag of Kirkland Colombian Supremo coffee ($16 at my neighborhood Costco; converted £12.50 or AU$23) can make five 24-ounce batches of concentrated cold brew. With each batch enough for 12 separate drinks, that's 60 drinks for $16 ( £12.50, AU$23) compared with three to four bought at the cafe. That's why you should definitely brew your own cold brew at home. You'll not only avoid the high retail markup, but you'll always have delicious chilled coffee on hand, too. Read more: Best coffee makers for 2019 | Coffee maker reviews | 7 tips that will change the way you brew coffee at home | The best coffee grinders you can buy right now | Bunn coffee maker reviews | Quit Starbucks and make your own cold-brew coffee for $68 | The best espresso machines for 2019| KitchenAid coffee maker reviews | Breville coffee maker reviews | Delonghi coffee maker reviews Why do the cold brew? Unlike regular iced coffee made from hot-brewed drip that's then cooled and poured over ice, cold brew is made with room-temperature (or colder) water from the start. You pour that water over a greater-than-normal quantity of coffee grounds, let it steep for 12 hours or more, and the result is a coffee drink that's sweet, rich and velvety-smooth, with no bitterness or acidity. Enlarge Image Cold-brew coffee and ice is a winning combination. Tyler Lizenby/CNET Cold brew should also be quite strong. Ideally, each batch uses double the coffee grounds called for to make a stiff pot of French press. But despite its potency, cold brew is remarkably easy to drink, especially when you cut it with ice, water, milk or even a little simple syrup. Frankly, it's the perfect coffee companion during steamy summer months. The flavor of cold brew concentrate won't degrade after sitting in melting ice either, a failing of conventional iced coffee. The hottest new coffee and espresso machines of 2019 19 Photos The process There are many different ways to make cold-brewed coffee, but at its core, the procedure is the same. You first start with coffee beans ground as coarse as your burr grinder will process them. Shoot for the texture of sand or breadcrumbs, not a fine powder. Enlarge Image Grind coffee for your cold brew coarsely. Chris Monroe/CNET Next, you'll want to make sure your coffee-to-water ratio is high enough to yield a strong liquid concentrate. I tend to shoot for one part coffee to four parts water (1:4), double the amount of coffee grounds called for by a typical pot of French press (1:8) and four times what's necessary for a drip machine (1:16). If you begin with 40 ounces (1.2 liters) of water, then expect to combine this with 10 ounces (284 grams) of ground coffee. Read: These coffee makers keep the cold brew flowing Choose your container You can steep coffee for cold brew in just about any watertight vessel, from mason jars or glass pitchers, to even plastic buckets. What's most important is to select a brewing chamber large enough to contain both your volume of water and the sizeable quantity of coffee grounds. The container also must be compact enough to store while its contents are brewing. Enlarge Image Brew in a small pitcher that fits in the fridge. Chris Monroe/CNET If you plan to brew in your kitchen fridge, then a small mason jar, French press or pitcher will work best. If you're making massive quantities of cold brew, you should consider brewing at room temperature unless you have adequate refrigerator space. Related links Oxo Cold Brew Coffee Maker review Drip coffee 101: Secrets to brewing the perfect cup How you make your coffee matters Bonavita's improved Connoisseur coffee maker is its best one yet It's a waiting game The big trade-off you make for brewing coffee at low temperatures is increased brewing time. A batch of cold brew requires between 12 and 24 hours to steep properly, no matter if it's sitting in the fridge or on your kitchen counter. One approach is to prepare your cold brew during daytime hours or right before bedtime, then let it steep overnight. Another tactic is to make a large amount that's enough to last for a week or two. Hopefully this will give you time to brew more coffee before you run out completely. Strain the grounds Perhaps the most difficult step in the cold-brew process is separating the coffee grounds from your liquid. A few popular ways include brewing using a French press and using its plunger to filter out coffee solids. A standard paper coffee filter works, too, along with metal mesh sieves, cheesecloth or even a combination of all three. Enlarge Image You can strain grounds with metal filters, paper, or both. In my experience, these DIY methods don't work as well as a dedicated cold brew appliance. I've found that paper and metal filters tend to strain slowly and create more mess than devices like the $49 Oxo Cold Brew Coffee Maker (£37, AU$64) and the $25 Takeya Cold Brew pitcher (£19, AU$32). Pour, enjoy, repeat Because you use a lot more beans making this kind of coffee drink compared with ordinary drip, cold brew is incredibly potent. Don't be afraid to dilute the liquid with chilled water, lots of ice, or milk to stretch out your supply. Enlarge Image A glass of sweet, delicious cold brew over ice. Chris Monroe/CNET I also recommend making some simple syrup to use as a handy sweetener. Even a touch of it will enhance the fruit-forward flavors of medium- and light-roasted coffee grounds, or the earthier, chocolate notes typical of a dark roast. Syrup will also dissolve into cold drinks much faster than solid sugar crystals. Now that you have the overall picture of how to cold-brew coffee at home, you'll be making batches yourself in no time. I'll bet you'll have fun -- and even save a little money in the long run, too. Update, May 24, 2019: This article was originally published in May, 2016 and is updated periodically. Comments Best Coffee Makers for 2020 Smart Home Notification on Notification off Coffee Makers Close Discuss: How to make the best cold-brew coffee Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.