https://www.cnet.com/news/best-dutch-oven/
Best Dutch oven in 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best Dutch oven in 2020 Including a budget option and even one for campers. Chowhound Staff March 24, 2020 1:25 PM PDT Sur la Table Dutch ovens are the original slow cooker in many ways. And because they need just slightly more attention and oversight than a Crock-Pot or slow cooker, now might be the perfect time to invest in one. For bean stews, beef bourguignon or even a simple batch of sauteed greens, a sturdy Dutch oven can be your closest ally for making nourishing comfort food all year long. Oh, and they look pretty great too. Dutch oven, a term often interchangeably used with French oven or cocotte, is a staple in the kitchen. If you're not familiar with these pots, they typically feature thick walls and a tight-fitting lid (unlike casserole dishes) with a single handle, loop handles or a knob, and most are made from cast iron or enameled cast iron. This essential piece of cookware can be used on a stovetop or in the oven and are a favorite vehicle for baking, browning or braising meat, frying, or cooking food like French fries, casseroles, soups and stews. These kitchen necessities are incredible -- you can accomplish almost any cooking task in a Dutch oven with the right temperature. They're truly one of the most versatile pots you can own, and a lot of home cooks will tell you it's their favorite cookware tool. Folks get rather attached to these durable items, likely because a good Dutch oven from an expert producer like Le Creuset or Marquette Castings will let you cook food for decades, if not longer. If you're in the market for your first Dutch oven or are replacing or upgrading your current model, here are a few of the best Dutch ovens in various styles and price ranges to buy: Our favorite overall: Le Creuset Signature Dutch oven Our budget pick: Lodge 6-quart enameled cast-iron Dutch oven Our favorite splurge: Staub round cocotte Our favorite new brand: Milo classic Dutch oven Our favorite for fun colors: Martha Stewart enameled cast-iron Dutch oven Our favorite nonenameled: Lodge preseasoned cast-iron Dutch oven Our favorite stainless steel: Calphalon Contemporary stainless steel Dutch oven Our favorite nonstick: Calphalon Contemporary nonstick Dutch oven Our favorite for camping: GSI hard anodized Dutch oven Our favorite for the holidays: Staub cast-iron pumpkin cocotte Read more: Our favorite direct-to-consumer cookware brands of 2020 What to look for when buying the best Dutch oven When shopping for a Dutch oven, you'll first want to consider the best size for your needs. The most popular interior sizes are between 5 and 7 quarts, but you can find products as small as 3 quarts or as large as 13. If you tend to make large holiday meals with lots of grub for your extended family, a bigger Dutch oven might serve you well. Just keep in mind that larger pots will be quite heavy (especially when full of food). Speaking of weight, Dutch ovens are supposed to have thick walls, so don't shy away from products that seem a bit heavy duty. You may also see round versus oval Dutch ovens, and the best option here depends on how you plan to use it. If you do a lot of stovetop oven cooking or frying, sauteing and browning, stick with a round model, as it will fit on the burner better. Some round models are what are called "double Dutch ovens," where the lid is deep enough to use as a skillet! Finally, it's generally better to choose a Dutch oven that's short and stout, rather than one that's skinny and taller (though a double Dutch oven will typically be a little taller than a regular Dutch oven). Why? A wide diameter gives you more interior surface area to brown food, and it can also save you time by cooking or frying ingredients faster. We read dozens of reviews for each product, compared pricing and product specs and, of course, drew from our own experiences baking, browning and frying a variety of dishes to curate a comprehensive list of the best Dutch ovens on the market. No matter your needs, you're sure to find the best Dutch oven on this list, which we'll update regularly. Our favorite overall Le Creuset signature Dutch oven Sur la Table If you're at all familiar with Dutch ovens, you've probably heard of Le Creuset. A French brand, Le Creuset is arguably the gold standard when it comes to Dutch ovens, and you can rest assured you're getting a quality piece of cookware when you buy Le Creuset's signature Dutch oven. Creuset makes its oven available in 5.5-, 7.25-, 9- and 13.25-quart interior sizes, as well as a rainbow of beautiful colors that will make it a showpiece for your kitchen when you're not cooking delicious grub. Le Creuset cast iron Dutch ovens are covered in vitrified porcelain making them easier to clean and resistant to stains, odors and acids. The nonreactive interior and cooking surface don't need to be seasoned like traditional cast iron, and you can use Le Creuset's oven on essentially any cooking surface, including induction cooktops and even open fires. Additionally, Le Creuset signature Dutch ovens have large, easy-grip handles and a heat-resistant, stainless steel knob. Every detail of Le Creuset's pots has been considered, and their unbeatable quality is reflected in Le Creuset's reviews, where happy chefs swoon over their beloved Dutch ovens. Many claim their Le Creuset Dutch oven to be the most-used item in their kitchen, from preparing easy meals to baking bread and heating soups, and most agree this product is worth the investment. Plus, Le Creuset's signature Dutch ovens come with a "limited" lifetime warranty, which means that if it's defective, it'll will replace it free of charge. Le Creuset even has a line of Star Wars Dutch ovens! $360 at Sur La Table Our budget pick Lodge enameled Dutch oven Lodge You don't necessarily have to spend an arm and a leg to get a great Dutch oven for your kitchen. The Lodge is widely heralded as the best Dutch oven for the price. Lodge Ditch ovens come in sizes ranging from 1.5-quart to 7.5-quart, so your oven size is always exactly what you need, as well as a wide selection of colors. The Lodge Dutch oven is made from cast iron and enamel coated, and it delivers superior heat distribution and retention. It's oven-safe up to high temperatures of 500 degrees Fahrenheit, and while you can technically put it in the dishwasher, the manufacturer recommends you hand wash your Lodge to reduce the risk of chipping the enamel finish on the surface or damaging the steel lid lifting knob. Reviewers say this Lodge Dutch oven is high-quality, especially considering its affordable price, and many say it's versatile and a joy to cook with. $60 at Walmart Our favorite splurge Staub round cocotte, 5.5-quart Sur la Table If you're willing to spend top dollar on an investment piece for your kitchen, you won't be disappointed with the Staub round cocotte, which delivers both in terms of performance and appearance. (It's a gorgeous addition to your kitchen decor.) Cocotte is the French term for a Dutch oven, and this European brand certainly knows how to make a beautiful piece of cookware! Its 5.5-quart cocottes come in more than 10 colors, all with durable enamel finishes. These Dutch ovens feature a self-basting lid with spikes on the underside to deliver continuous distribution of juices while cooking, and the oven-safe enamel surface and cast iron construction ensures effective heat distribution and retention. There's no seasoning required, and the enamel is easy to clean with soapy water. The Staub round cocotte is an ideal vehicle for baking, frying or browning your favorite Dutch oven recipes, like soups, casseroles, roasts and braises, and reviewers rave about it, writing, "This pot is as close to perfect as a pot gets. It's sturdy, durable, functional and flat-out easy to use." $260 at Sur La Table Our favorite new brand Milo classic Dutch oven Milo Direct-to-consumer cookware companies are popping up left and right, and Milo is an up-and-coming brand that sells high-quality Dutch ovens at affordable prices. The Milo Dutch oven rivals products from some of the most well-established cookware brands, thanks to its cast-iron construction and durable enamel coating. The Dutch oven has a 5.5-quart capacity and comes in black or white enamel finishes. It's oven safe in super high temperatures -- up to 500 degrees Fahrenheit -- and it can even go in the dishwasher without damaging the enamel. Milo offers a lifetime guarantee on its products, and it claims this pot is ideal both for kitchen newbies and professionals. Happy buyers say that the pan is "heavy and solid like you would expect from Staub or Le Creuset" with a smooth, easy-to-clean finish. $65 at Food52 Our favorite for colors Martha Stewart Collection enameled cast-iron Dutch oven Macy's Bring a pop of color into your kitchen with this 6-quart Dutch oven from the Macy's Martha Stewart Collection. There are a wide variety of colors to choose from, and many of them feature a subtle ombre finish. These Dutch ovens are made from enameled cast iron and come with a tightly fitted lid that has a center knob and a condensation ring to help circulate moisture while cooking food. A large handle on each side makes the pot easy to move from stove to table, and reviewers call it a "kitchen essential." Right now save $125 with special code VIP. $75 at Macy's Our favorite non-enameled Lodge 7-quart preseasoned cast-iron Dutch oven Lodge Many of today's best Dutch ovens feature a porcelain enameled finish that makes them nonreactive, easy to clean and impervious to stains and odors. However, if you like the taste imparted by nonenameled cast iron, you may want to consider the Lodge preseasoned cast iron Dutch oven. This product doesn't have an enamel exterior -- instead, it's been preseasoned with vegetable oil. It has a 7-quart capacity that reviewers say is perfect for grub like bread and soups, as well as many other dishes. Without enamel, it needs to be taken care of properly -- that means careful washing and reseasoning as needed -- but the sturdy construction will last for decades. $55 at Amazon Read more: How to clean cast iron Our favorite stainless steel Calphalon contemporary stainless steel Dutch oven Calphalon Cast iron is the most common material for Dutch ovens, but there are also stainless steel options available, such as this model from Calphalon. The 8-quart covered Dutch oven is made from stainless steel and features an aluminum core for excellent heat conductivity, and it's oven- and dishwasher-safe, even with its glass lid. The brushed exterior will look sleek and modern in your kitchen, and reviewers love the large capacity and see-through cover, which makes it easy to monitor your food without letting heat escape. $64 at Amazon Our favorite nonstick Calphalon contemporary nonstick Dutch oven Calphalon No need to break out your scrubbing brush with the Calphalon nonstick Dutch oven! The unique product features a non-stick coating that will ensure that it's easy to get food off when it's time to clean up. This 8.5-quart Dutch oven is made from heavy-gauge, hard-anodized aluminum that delivers quick, even heat distribution, and it has a stainless steel handle on each side that stays cool, as well as a tempered glass lid with another handle rather than a knob. The whole unit is oven-safe for temperatures up to 450 degrees (so baking is a snap), and you can put pot and lid in the dishwasher if you choose. $75 at Amazon Our favorite for camping GSI hard-anodized Dutch oven GSI Outdoors Not only can you use Dutch ovens in the kitchen, you can use them in the great outdoors, as well. Many campers choose to bring a product like the GSI hard-anodized Dutch oven along on their adventures, as these pots can be used over an open flame or campfire. This particular Dutch oven is designed for camping with fixed legs for increased stability and a deep edge around the lid where you can place coals from the fire. The nonreactive, hard-anodized aluminum Dutch oven weighs 66% less than traditional cast iron, so it's easy to carry out to your campsite. Additionally, this Dutch oven is rust-free and scratch-resistant, ensuring it will survive even the toughest outdoor excursions. $70 at Amazon Our favorite for the holidays Staub cast-iron pumpkin cocotte Sur la Table If you plan to use your Dutch oven for Thanksgiving and other holidays, you might want a festive design, like that of the Staub cast-iron pumpkin cocotte. This adorable pumpkin-shaped dish has a 3.5-quart capacity, and it comes with all the features you'd expect from this high-end brand. It has a smooth enamel coating on the bottom, tight-fitting lid and superior heat retention and is oven safe for temperatures up to 500 degrees. Plus, it makes the perfect centerpiece for your holiday table! $290 at Sur la Table More kitchen guides The best Instant Pots of 2020 compared The best food processor of 2020: Braun, Cuisinart and more compared Best grills of 2020: Top charcoal, gas and kamado models Best charcoal grill for 2020 The best kamado grills: Big Green Egg, Kamado Joe, Char-Griller and more The best meal kit delivery services of 2020 Our favorite cookware sets of 2020 This article was written by Camryn Rabideau for Chowhound's Cookware Week. Comments Smart Home Small Appliances Notification on Notification off Deals Close Discuss: Best Dutch oven in 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.