https://www.cnet.com/news/best-cash-back-credit-cards/
Best Cash Back Credit Cards - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. The best cash back credit cards in 2020 Find the right cash back credit card for your spending habits. Joe Van Brussel March 9, 2020 1:18 PM PDT Leer en español Best flat-rate card for higher spenders Citi® Double Cash Card Jump to details See at CitiBank Best no-fee category card Wells Fargo Propel American Express® Card Jump to details See at Wells Fargo Best category card / best for online shopping Bank of America® Cash Rewards Credit Card Jump to details See at Bank of America Best for Amazon and Whole Foods shoppers Amazon Prime Rewards Visa Signature Card Jump to details See at Amazon Best for regular Apple shoppers, instant rewards and privacy Apple Card Jump to details See at Apple Best for big grocery shoppers Blue Cash Preferred Card® from American Express Jump to details See at American Express Best for dining and entertainment Capital One® Savor® Cash Rewards Credit Card Jump to details See at Capital One Show more (2 items) Among the dizzying array of rewards credit cards, cash-back credit cards stand out for their simplicity. The rewards you generate for making purchases on a cash-back credit card don't need to be converted, transferred or strategically redeemed to maximize value. You just get cash deposited into an account or a statement credit on your monthly bill. The upside of these cards is less hassle and effort. The downside is your net reward rate will usually be slightly lower than if you were to sign up for a credit card with a complex earning and redemption process, such as you get with mileage cards. Hassle-free, cash-back rewards usually get automatically applied to your balance by credit card issuers after one or two billing cycles and -- depending on your spending -- can put a lot of money back in your wallet. Most consumers can earn anywhere from 2% to 4% overall using one of the best cards. So, if you spend $15,000 annually, that would translate to between $300 and $600 a year of cash-back rewards. Read more: Best tax software for 2020: TurboTax, H&R Block, TaxSlayer and more To figure out which cash rewards credit card or cards make sense for you, I've chosen eight high-value options from the crowded market. Some are no-fee, flat-rate credit cards that earn the same amount on all purchases. Some are limited to specific spending categories (e.g. groceries, dining, gas, transit or travel) but have a higher rewards rate, while others charge an annual fee. I've also outlined important information for reach rewards credit card, like whether the card has a transfer fee, bonus redemption thresholds, introductory APR and credit requirements (not down to your individual FICO credit score, but generally speaking). I've organized the list by group, starting with the most straightforward cluster and ending with the most complicated. To approximate the value of each card for an individual and assess which spending situations make sense for each, I leveraged data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Consumer Expenditure Survey. Best cash back credit cards Card Best for Reward rates New member bonus Chase Freedom Unlimited® Best flat-rate card with bonus Unlimited 1.5% cash back on every purchase $200 after spending $500 within the first three months Citi® Double Cash Card Best flat-rate card for higher spenders Unlimited 2% on every purchase (1% at purchase, 1% when you pay off the purchase), and 1% back on all other purchases $0 Wells Fargo Propel American Express® Card Best no-fee category card Unlimited 3% cash back on dining, travel, transit and select streaming services, 1% back on all other purchases $200 after spending $1,000 within the first 3 months Bank of America® Cash Rewards Credit Card Best quarterly rewards card / best for online shopping 3% cash back in choice category (gas, dining, travel, online shopping, drug stores, home improvement/furnishings) and 2% back at grocery stores/wholesale clubs up to $2,500 per quarter, 1% back on all other purchases $200 after spending $1,000 within the first 90 days Amazon Prime Rewards Visa Signature Card Best for Amazon and Whole Foods shoppers 5% on Amazon, Whole Foods; 2% at restaurants, gas stations, drugstores, 1% back on all other purchases $100 Amazon gift card upon approval Apple Card Best for regular Apple shoppers, instant rewards and privacy 3% on Apple, Uber and Walgreens purchases, 2% on Apple Pay purchases, 1% back on all other purchases $0 Capital One® Savor® Cash Rewards Credit Card Best for dining and entertainment Unlimited 4% cash back on dining and entertainment, 2% at grocery stores, 1% back on all other purchases $300 after spending $3,000 within the first 3 months Blue Cash Preferred® from American Express Best for big grocery bills 6% cash back on groceries at U.S. supermarkets up to $6,000 per year, then 1%. 6% on select U.S. streaming services, 3% on transit and U.S. gas stations, 1% back on all other purchases $250 after spending $1,000 within the first 3 months The simplest: No-fee, flat-rate cards Best flat-rate card with bonus Chase Freedom Unlimited® Chase Reward rates: Unlimited 1.5% cash back on every purchase Annual fee: $0 New member bonus: $200 Bonus redemption threshold: $500 in first three months Credit requirement: Good to Excellent Intro APR: 0% on purchases and balance transfers (15 months) APR for purchases: 16.49% to 25.24% variable APR for balance transfers: 16.49% to 25.24% variable Balance transfer fee: 5% (minimum of $5) The simplest cash back cards are those with flat rates and no fees. The Chase Freedom Unlimited card offers a flat, unlimited 1.5% cash back on all purchases regardless of spending category and doesn't charge an annual fee. It's a good introductory card for the world of cash back rewards. Rewards details The Chase Freedom Unlimited offers a $200 bonus after spending $500 in your first three months (one of the lowest bonus thresholds I found -- see chart), but offers a slightly lower overall rate (1.5%) than the Citi Double Cash Card (up to 2.0%). For cash-back rewards, the half percent might seem negligible, but it adds up to an extra $50 for every $10,000 spent. When to use this card For your overall credit card strategy, the Chase Freedom Unlimited can be the only card in your wallet if you're going for simplicity, or your preferred card for whenever you buy something outside of another bonus category, like a plane ticket if you don't have a card that offers bonus points for travel purchases. It can also be useful when paired with a card that earns Chase Ultimate Rewards points, because you can convert your rewards into points which can increase their value. Keep in mind that cards that offer higher percentages on certain categories, like the Capital One Savor's 4% for dining and entertainment, offer only 1% back on all other categories, so it pays to have a flat-rate card like the Freedom Unlimited handy for purchases that don't fall into your other card's bonus categories. Redemption details You can redeem any amount of Chase points either as a statement credit on your bill, or as a direct deposit into your bank account. The redemption flexibility is a nice advantage over other cards that only allow redemptions at certain levels, like 2,500 points or $25. Learn More Best flat-rate card for higher spenders Citi® Double Cash Card CitiBank Reward rates: Unlimited 2% cash back on every purchase Annual fee: $0 New member bonus: $0 Bonus redemption threshold: None Credit requirement: Good to Excellent Intro APR: 0% on balance transfers (18 months) APR for purchases: 15.49% to 25.49% variable APR for balance transfers: 15.49% to 25.49% variable Balance transfer fee: 3% (minimum of $5) Rewards details The Citi Double Cash Card is as simple as the Chase Freedom Unlimited, but it's one of the few cards that doesn't offer a sign-on bonus. The trade-off with the lack of a sign-on bonus is an above-average cash-back rate. When to use this card Like the Freedom Unlimited, the Citi Double Cash Card can be the only card in your wallet, or your preferred card for whenever you buy something outside of a bonus category. Worth noting is that this card does have a 3% transaction fee for anytime you make a foreign transaction. It does offer a cash advance, but the fee is either $10 or 5% of each cash advance. Redemption details Citi's rewards can be redeemed starting at $25 and come in the form of either a check or statement credit. One redemption distinction to note for the Citi Double Cash Card is that you get 1% back when you make a purchase, and the second 1% when you pay off your bill. Given that I recommend paying off your bill in full every month, I don't place much importance on this split. See at CitiBank Read more: How to master your 2020 budget | DC Comics has its own super hero-themed credit cards Category comparison The main difference between the two above cards is the cash-back rate and the initial bonus. Citi's card is best over the long-term, while Chase lets you reap more rewards points immediately. Once you spend $40,000 on the Citi Double Cash Card, you make up for the $200 bonus, and everything after that is added value. Up to $40,000, your overall return rate is better with the Chase Freedom Unlimited. So if you're thinking long-term, the extra .5% from the Citi Double Cash Card will pay off. If you're only spending $15,000 annually with a cash-back card and you're looking at only the next two years, then the Chase Freedom Unlimited makes more sense. For a graphical representation of the two cards, see below. ' CNET Read more: 7 things to know about interest free credit cards | The best minimalist wallets for 2020 Getting strategic: No-fee 'category' cards From this point on, we're getting into the strategic territory, so I'll be evaluating cards based on how and when you use them. All of the remaining cards have different cash back percentages based on the type of purchase, so different spending habits will net different results. While there may be a card or two that makes sense as your only card, most of these will be best when paired with other cashback cards so you're not making too many purchases outside of a bonus category. Best no-fee category card Wells Fargo Propel American Express® Card Wells Fargo Reward rates: Unlimited 3% cash back (3x points) on dining, travel, gas stations, transit and select streaming services, 1% (1x points) on everything else Annual fee: $0 New member bonus: $200 (20,000 points) Bonus redemption threshold: $1,000 in first three months Credit Requirement: Good to Excellent Intro APR: 0% on purchases and balance transfers (12 months) APR for purchases: 15.49% to 27.49% variable APR for balance transfers: 15.49% to 27.49% variable Balance transfer fee: 5% (minimum of $5) Rewards details Wells Fargo Propel has the best combination of rewards rate (unlimited 3% or 3x points) and breadth of categories (dining, gas, transit, travel and streaming services). The cash bonus (20,000 points, which is equivalent to $200, after spending $1,000 in the first three months, worth a $200 cash redemption) is right in line with the $150-$200 industry standard. When to use this card Since the bonus categories aren't rotating and the card covers a lot of ground, I recommend it paired with the Citi Double Cash Card or Chase Freedom Unlimited for non-bonus category spending. Remember that there's little reason to log a purchase that only earns you 1% when no-fee 1.5% and 2% earners exist. Redemption details Propel's cash rewards can be redeemed as either a deposit into a Wells Fargo account or as a statement credit. The minimum threshold for redemption is 2,500 points ($25). Rewards comparison The closest card on the list to the Wells Fargo Propel is probably the Capital One Savor card, which earns 4% on dining and entertainment, 2% at grocery stores, 1% on everything else and charges a $95 annual fee. For the extra 1% to cover the $95 fee, you'd need to spend almost $800 monthly ($9,500 per year) on dining and entertainment. So unless you're spending that much on dining and entertainment specifically, the Wells Fargo Propel is the better choice for cash-back rewards card. See at Wells Fargo Best category card / best for online shopping Bank of America® Cash Rewards Credit Card Bank of America Reward rates: 3% cash back in choice category (gas, dining, travel, online shopping, drug stores, home improvement/furnishings); 2% back at grocery stores/wholesale clubs up to $2,500 per quarter; 1% on everything else Annual fee: $0 New member bonus: $200 Bonus redemption threshold: $1,000 in first 90 days Credit requirement: Good to Excellent Intro APR: 0% on purchases and balance transfers (15 months) APR for purchases: 15.49% to 25.49% variable APR for balance transfers: 15.49% to 25.49% variable Balance transfer fee: 3% (minimum of $10) Rewards details The Bank of America Cash Rewards card is one of the "rotating bonus category" cards, meaning that the category that generates the 3% reward changes over the course of the year. However, unlike most other bonus cards which have set quarterly rotations or a rewards program, the Bank of America version lets you choose your category (up to once a calendar month) from a list of six: gas, online shopping, dining, travel, drug stores or home improvement and furnishings. When to use this card Given the flexibility of the rewards program, I recommend using this card to fill a gap in your spending strategy. If you have a flat-rate card, a card for groceries and one for dining and travel, but you spend over $100 a month shopping online, you can sign up for the Bank of America Cash Rewards card, choose "online shopping" and treat it as your online spending card. I use the online shopping category specifically because it's less common than categories like gas or dining, but you can obviously pick the category that makes the most sense for your spending habits. I don't recommend this card if you're doing a lot of overseas travel. It has a 3 percent foreign transaction fee. Redemption details You can redeem BankAmericard cash rewards for any amount at any time and have them deposited into a Bank of America or Merrill account, or redeem them as a statement credit. Rewards comparison Other bonus category cards, like the Chase Freedom or Discover It Cash Back, rotate through three or four different categories over the course of the year, making it difficult to maximize rewards or pair the card with other cards. That makes the flexibility and choice of the Bank of America card stand out. See at Bank of America Tech cards While Netflix doesn't have a credit card (yet), most of the other FAANG group members have made significant efforts in recent years to channel payments through their systems. Facebook is going the cryptocurrency route, Google Pay is a thing and now both Amazon and Apple have their own cash back credit cards. Even Verizon is getting into the credit card game. Best for Amazon and Whole Foods shoppers Amazon Prime Rewards Visa Signature Card Amazon Reward rates: 5% on Amazon, Whole Foods; 2% at restaurants, gas stations, drugstores; 1% on everything else Annual fee: $0 New member bonus: $100 Amazon Gift Card Bonus redemption threshold: Card approval Credit requirement: Fair Intro APR: None APR for purchases: 15.74% to 23.74% variable APR for balance transfers: 15.74% to 23.74% variable Balance transfer fee: 5% (minimum of $5) This card is a must-have for anyone who shops regularly on Amazon. I'm not even going to offer a minimum recommended threshold as there's no downside and few other cards offer Amazon-specific discounts. Rewards details Given that you can buy just about anything on Amazon, 5% back on the popular online retailer is pretty sweet. The card also throws in 2% at restaurants, gas stations and drug stores, and 1% on all other purchases. While Amazon offers a basic, non-Prime member card with 3% back on Amazon purchases, I'm focusing on the Prime rewards card since I assume that if you're making a significant amount of purchases each month (over $250) at Amazon or Whole Foods, you're most likely a Prime member. When to use this card If you shop a ton at Amazon and Whole Foods and most of the rest of your spending is at restaurants and on gas, the Amazon Prime Rewards card could be your only cash-back card. Outside of that specific spending profile, though, I recommend using this card like the others -- as a supplement to a flat-rate card to earn cash for Amazon and Whole Foods purchases. Redemption details You can redeem points at checkout while shopping on Amazon for any amount, or redeem them as a statement credit through Chase starting at 2,000 points ($20). Note that Amazon encourages the Amazon redemption option (obviously) and doesn't mention cash, but it is in fact a no-fee option that can be redeemed at the same rate. Rewards comparison The only other card you might want to use for Amazon purchases is the Bank of America Cash Rewards card, which offers 3% back on online shopping (if you select that bonus category that quarter), which includes Amazon and a bunch of other online retailers. The percentage is 2% less than Amazon's card, but if you shop at a variety of online retailers, this could make more sense. With some quick math, you'll see that if more than half of your online shopping is non-Amazon, the Bank of America Cash Rewards card reaps the most rewards. Alternatively, to get the most cash back, sign up for both no-fee cards and use the BofA version for non-Amazon shopping. See at Amazon Best for regular Apple shoppers, instant rewards and privacy Apple Card Apple Reward rates: 3% on Apple, Uber and Walgreens purchases; 2% on Apple Pay purchases; 1% on everything else Annual fee: $0 New member bonus: $0 Bonus redemption threshold: None Credit requirement: Fair Intro APR: None APR for purchases: 12.49% to 23.49% variable APR for balance transfers: Not offered Balance transfer fee: Not offered Rewards details The Apple Credit Card has a unique rewards program structure, offering 3% on Apple, Uber and Walgreens purchases (an eclectic combination of categories to say the least), 2% on purchases made with Apple Pay and 1% on everything else. But unless you're an Apple super shopper and everyday Uber user, the 3% category isn't going to stand out much. Plus, having to use Apple Pay to hit 2% compares poorly with the Citi Double Cash Card, which offers up to 2% on everything, no matter how you pay. There are some advantages to Apple's card, though. Other benefits The Apple Credit Card's privacy policy states that they will "never share or sell your data to third parties for marketing or advertising," a significant gesture for those concerned with their personal data. The Apple Card's reward structure is also distinct in that the cash back appears immediately in your account, hitting your balance at the end of each day. So if you can't wait a month or two to redeem points and another 4-5 days for a statement credit to post to your account, the Apple Card's instant rewards could be appealing. When to use this card If the primary 3% category (Apple, Uber and Walgreens) applies to a lot of your purchases, this is a good cash-back option. But, the 2% for Apple Pay is a little flimsy given not all retailers accept Apple Pay, while the Citi Double Cash Card offers up to 2% no matter what. This card is primarily for those who are interested in the card's privacy policy and instant rewards. Finally, I should point out that Apple has made a big deal out of the low APR and lack of fees for things like late payments, but given our operating assumption that you're paying off your balance every month on time anyway, I see that as less of a differentiating factor. Note that the Apple Card doesn't report credit activity to all three major credit bureaus (only TransUnion), so if you're trying to build your credit score, it will have less of an impact. See at Apple High-yield, annual fee 'category' cards Ah, now we're getting deep into each cashback credit card. These two cards will rarely be your one-and-only cards, unless your overall spending is heavily tilted toward one category. However, they can get you 2% to 4% extra on certain categories, making them worth the annual fee if you hit certain spending thresholds in those categories. With a $95 annual fee for each card, you need to be a little more circumspect when deciding if a card is worth it. Usually, having extra cards in your wallet carries little downside (unless you're not paying them off each month) and even helps your credit score by increasing your total available credit. But with these fee cards, you're charged the $95 every year regardless of how much you use it, so take a beat to ensure it makes sense before applying. I recommend two in this category: The Capital One Savor card, which is great for dining and entertainment, and the Blue Cash Preferred card from American Express for groceries. Both offer a decent sign-on bonus ($250 and $300, respectively), but the Blue Cash Preferred threshold is much easier to hit ($1,000 in spending in the first three months, vs. $3,000 in spending in the first three months for the Savor). Best for big grocery shoppers Blue Cash Preferred Card® from American Express American Express Reward rates: 6% cash back on groceries at U.S. supermarkets up to $6,000/year (less than 1%). 6% on select U.S. streaming services, 3% on transit and U.S. gas stations, 1% on everything else Annual fee: $95 New member bonus: $250 Bonus redemption threshold: $1,000 in first three months Credit requirement: Good to Excellent Intro APR: 0% on purchases and balance transfers (12 months) APR for purchases: 13.99% to 24.99% variable APR for balance transfers: 13.99% to 24.99% variable Balance transfer fee: 3% (minimum of $5) Rewards details The headline rate is the 6% at U.S. supermarkets, with a cap limit of $6,000 annually, after which the rate goes to 1%. If you're hitting the limit, that 6% will reward you with $360 per year. The rewards cap is a little annoying, but given that it works out to $500 per month on groceries, it usually won't come into play unless you're a family of three or more. The Blue Cash Preferred card also offers 6% back on streaming services, but with most Americans maxing out at about $40-50 per month on select U.S. streaming services (and many spend less than that), that part of the reward only amounts to around $35 of annual value. For most, the $250 bonus threshold is very easy to hit, so you can basically count it as a sure thing. But, unlike the Capital One Savor's current offer, the annual fee isn't waived for the first year. When to use this card Given the very generous 6% cash-back rate, you only need to spend about $140 per month on U.S. supermarket purchases to make up for the fee, and about $200 per month to earn the same amount of rewards as you would with a 2% cash back card. So if you spend more than $200 per month on groceries and streaming subscriptions, this becomes a profitable card. The real sweet spot is between about $350 and $500 monthly grocery spend, where you're maxing out that 6%. I should also note that there's a no-fee version of the Blue Cash card, called Blue Cash Everyday. But considering the bonus difference ($250 for Preferred vs $175 for Everyday) and the huge cash-back difference (6% at U.S. supermarkets vs. 3%, respectively), I was hard pressed to find many situations where the free card would be better. Redemption details You can redeem AmEx points only as statement credits, with no option to redeem them for travel, gift cards or deposits into a checking account. The minimum threshold for a redemption is $25. See at American Express Best for dining and entertainment Capital One® Savor® Cash Rewards Credit Card Capital One Reward rates: Unlimited 4% cash back on dining and entertainment, 2% at grocery stores, 1% on all other purchases Annual fee: $95 (waived first year) New member bonus: $300 Bonus redemption threshold: $3,000 in first 3 months Credit requirement: Good to Excellent Intro APR: None APR for purchases: 15.99% to 24.99% variable APR for balance transfers: 15.99% to 24.99% variable Balance transfer fee: None** Rewards details The $300 bonus is a nice incentive to sign up, and effectively cancels out the annual fee for the first three years. But, keep in mind that the $3,000 bonus threshold is fairly high, so you might need to use the card for non-bonus category spending in those initial months to make sure you hit it. You'll be sacrificing a few percentage points of rewards from other cards, but it's worth it to make sure you don't forego $300 -- just do the math to ensure it makes sense. The Savor card's headline rate is the 4% you get on dining and entertainment, which includes bars and restaurants for dining and "tickets to a movie, play, concert, sporting event, tourist attraction, theme park, aquarium, zoo, dance club, pool hall or bowling alley" for entertainment. If you're like most American consumers who spend more on dining than entertainment, then note the emphasis on that part of the bonus. When to use this card This card makes sense if you're spending more than about $300 per month on dining and entertainment. If that's the case, I recommend only putting those purchases on it. There's no reason to take the 1% penalty on non-dining and entertainment purchases. For those, use your 1.5% or 2% card. Redemption details You can redeem your Capital One Savor points in the form of a statement credit or as a check, at any amount (no minimum thresholds or maximum earning caps). ** 3% of the amount of each transferred balance that posts to your account at a promotional APR that we may offer you. See at Capital One How we picked the best cash back credit cards To determine the best cash back credit cards, we researched 18 popular cards and looked for those which offer the best overall financial value. This means we look at net overall value for each rewards credit card, rather than prioritizing perks or offers that quickly lose value after the initial sign-up. In the end, the rewards credit card with the largest sign-on offer will not always be deemed the best card. We prioritized the cash back credit cards that reward broad spending categories where Americans tend to spend significant amounts of money (like dining, travel and grocery shopping), instead of narrow categories like streaming services or "home improvement." Then we compared reward offerings with potential returns based on hypothetical spending budgets. Those hypothetical budgets are based primarily on the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Consumer Expenditure Survey, with several members of the CNET staff's subjective input, as well. These evaluations are visualized in the form of graphs throughout our list. How do cash back credit cards work? Cash back credit cards offer cardholders rewards on their spending in the form of statement credits or cash. A statement credit is a reduction in the amount due to the credit card company on your monthly bill. Note that rewards are not always available the month you earn them -- they are usually applied to your balance by credit card issuers after one or two billing cycles. The redemption process for cash back credit cards is either automatic or very simple. Some cards, like the Bank of America Cash Rewards card, automatically apply cash rewards to your statement balance each month. Others, like the Wells Fargo Propel card, require you to log in and redeem available Go Far Rewards points for statement credits. Most points don't expire, but you will lose them if you close the account before redeeming them. Some, like Citi, expire only after one year of account inactivity. Cash back credit cards generally fall into four primary categories: flat-rate, tiered, rotating, or choose your own. Flat-rate cards offer the same rate for every purchase. Those are cards like the Citi Double Cash, which offers 2% back on every purchase or the Chase Freedom Unlimited, which offers 1.5% back on every purchase. Tiered cards offer different rewards rates for different categories of spending. One example is the Amazon Prime Rewards credit card, which offers 5% back on Amazon and Whole Foods purchases, 2% at restaurants, drug stores, and gas stations, and 1% on everything else. Rotating category cards offer different rewards each quarter, determined by the card issuer. Choose-your-own category cards allow you to choose your rewards category, like the Bank of America Cash Rewards card, which offers 3% back on the category of your choice, 2% back on groceries, and 1% on everything else. Should you get a cash back credit card? We recommend cash back credit cards for everyone. Given that even the best cards don't charge an annual fee, most of them offer a sign-up bonus, and the redemption process is very simple, there are essentially no downsides to holding a cash back credit card. The principal drawbacks are paying interest on a statement balance (which we strongly advise against) and being compelled to increase your spending due to the rewards structure. Studies have shown that when paying with a credit card, consumers tend to spend substantially more than when paying with cash, up to 83% more in some cases. This is why it's important to carefully monitor whether or not you're spending more when you use a credit card. If you spend 50% more on dining after getting a 4% cash back on dining credit card, you're ultimately not doing yourself any good. Cash back credit cards are also ideal for those who want just one type of rewards card versus many. For instance, one of the flat-rate credit cards, like the Citi Double Cash card or the Chase Freedom Unlimited, would serve you well as the only credit card in your wallet. On the contrary, if you're okay with paying multiple bills and using different cards for different purchases, cash back cards are complementary to other types of rewards cards. Say you have a travel rewards credit card, for example, that gives you 5X points on flights. You can use that card for your flight reservations, and your flat-rate cash back card for everything else. How to choose a cash back credit card To choose the right cash back credit card, the most important thing is to have a clear idea of how you're already spending money each month. We recommend you chart your spending over the past three to six months and break out expenditures into categories, such as dining, groceries and gas. (Budgeting sites like Mint -- or even your current bank -- do this tracking automatically). Once you identify the categories in which you have the highest, most consistent spending, use the charts in our list to determine which card will net you the highest return. Then, after signing up for a credit card, compare your spending across the same time period with the period before having the credit card. If you notice discrepancies, especially large ones, consider using cash for those purchases or simply take note of how you used to spend and match it up. Only after you determine which card has the best reward rate for your categories should you take a look at the additional perks and offers, like sign-on bonuses, foreign transaction fees, or rental car coverage, and determine which -- if any -- of them apply to you and how important they are. Some might seem valuable but not actually save you any money, like a card that doesn't charge a foreign transaction fees when you never travel abroad. Annual percentage rates (APR) determine the amount of interest you'll pay over the course of the year on any balance you keep on your credit card. Given our advice is to use your rewards credit card in place of cash and to never carry a balance, APRs are the least influential factor. Most credit cards offer a variable APR in the 15% to 25% range depending on the card and your particular credit score. Compared to reward rates, those numbers are high. Like 5 to 10 times higher than average rewards rates. If you maintain a balance on your credit card statement, you're erasing those rewards and then some, which is why we recommend paying off your balance in full each month. However, fifty-five percent of Americans don't pay off the balance of their credit card every month. If you have any trouble paying off your credit card bill each month, prioritize that before all else. Only after you've relieved yourself of debt and no longer pay interest fees should you consider a rewards card. Your credit card choice may also be affected by your credit score. Most of the cards we recommend require a good or excellent credit score, which is typically around 650 or higher. If you don't meet the credit criteria required, there are credit cards available that are specifically for those trying to rebuild credit, like secured credit cards. How to maximize cash back rewards The most important strategy for maximizing cash back rewards might be surprising: don't overspend. Once you start earning points and bonuses and rewards for spending, you may be tempted to try to rack up your rewards, but that will get you further away from your financial goals, not closer. Cash back rewards are a great way to earn a little money back on current spending, but as soon as you spend more than you normally would just to get rewards, the net value will be negative. One way to avoid overspending is by using a budgeting app that keeps you honest, like You Need A Budget. The second tip is to never miss a payment. If you have to pay a late payment fee or an interest payment for an outstanding balance, your losses will eclipse your rewards very quickly. We recommend paying off your credit card bill twice a month to be safe, or opting into automatic payments. Finally, to maximize cash-back rewards, consider adding two or three different credit card offers to your wallet. Cards often target just one or two categories, so you may need to enlist several cards to maximize the returns on your spending. That being said, you also need to factor in the time and energy you spend on credit card rewards. At a certain point, the perfect strategy may be too time-consuming and stressful. Different types of credit cards to consider Cash back credit cards are good for the majority of consumers, but there are also other types of rewards credit cards to consider. Travel rewards credit cards, for example, are great for those who travel often or who want to upgrade their travel experience with perks like airline lounge access or upgrades. Travel credit cards reward cardholders with points or miles, like Chase's Ultimate Rewards points or American Express' Membership Rewards points, that can be redeemed for travel purchases. For those who need to build or rebuild their credit score, secured credit cards and student credit cards are the best options. While many cash back and travel rewards cards require good to excellent credit, these other types of cards help those with lower scores build your credit over time. Secured credit cards require an up-front deposit in the amount of the credit line, so you're basically making a loan to the bank in exchange for credit history. Student cards are designed to help young people without a credit history build credit for the first time. Both usually come with a low credit limit and higher likelihood of approval. There are also "club" credit cards that are only available to people who are members of a credit union, brokerage, or other type of membership club. Those include credit union credit cards like the Alliant CU Visa, retail cards like the Costco credit card, the Target RedCard, and the Sam's Club MasterCard, or the Fidelity cash back credit cards for Fidelity account holders. Finally, business credit cards, like the Chase Ink Business line of cards or the Business Platinum Card from American Express, are for small businesses and even contractors and freelancers and geared toward logging business expenses. A business credit card will usually offer rewards for categories such as internet and phone bill expenses, office supplies, and other business-related purchases. Disclaimer: The information included in this article, including program features, program fees and credits available through credit cards to apply to such programs, may change from time-to-time and are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please check the credit card provider's website and review its terms and conditions for the most current offers and information. Opinions expressed here are author's alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, hotel, airline, or other entity. This content has not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of the entities included within the post. The comments on this article are not provided or commissioned by the bank advertiser. Responses have not been reviewed, approved, or otherwise endorsed by the bank advertiser. It is not the bank advertiser's responsibility to ensure all posts and/or questions are answered. Comments Notification on Notification off Credit cards Close Discuss: The best cash back credit cards in 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.