https://www.cnet.com/news/best-soundbars-for-2020/
Best soundbar for 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best soundbar for 2020 Let's face it, TV audio quality sucks. A soundbar can provide a big improvement for a small price. Here are our favorites. Ty Pendlebury March 19, 2020 10:13 AM PDT Best soundbar for the money Vizio SB3621n-E8 Jump to details $133 at Walmart Best soundbar under $100 Creative Stage Jump to details $117 at Amazon Best soundbar with built-in streaming video Roku Smart Soundbar Jump to details $180 at Best Buy Best budget Atmos soundbar Vizio SB36512-F6 Jump to details $422 at Walmart Best for voice control and multi-room audio Sonos Beam Jump to details $400 at Best Buy Best soundbar with Alexa Yamaha YAS-209 Jump to details $300 at Walmart Best budget bar without a subwoofer Vizio SB362AN-F6 Jump to details $98 at Walmart Best bass without a subwoofer Zvox SB500 Jump to details $400 at Walmart Best Atmos surround from a single speaker Sennheiser Ambeo Soundbar Jump to details $2,488 at Abt Electronics Show more (4 items) Soundbars now outsell traditional home theater speaker, receiver and subwoofer packages by a wide margin, and it's not hard to see why. They're compact, affordable, and simple to set up. And their audio quality is often so much better than a TV's standard built-in speakers. Basically, a soundbar and a TV go together like peanut butter and jelly. The problem? Too many choices. This list is one solution. We've listened to the soundbars below in our audio lab, testing their sound quality with both movies and music. We also took into account things like the number of HDMI ports and whether they offer high-resolution audio, Bluetooth or multi-channel audio. From Alexa-powered smart speakers to solid bare-bones bars, this is CNET's lineup of the best soundbars at multiple prices and feature levels. We'll update this list regularly as we review new products. Read more: Soundbar buyer's guide for 2020 Now playing: Watch this: Vizio's $150 sound bar is one of the best you can buy 1:35 Best soundbar for the money Vizio SB3621n-E8 Sarah Tew/CNET If you're looking to ditch your tv speakers, this is where we suggest you start. The Vizio SB3621n-E8 is hands down the best soundbar for the money. It offers excellent sound quality in a compact package. Its wireless external subwoofer ensures that the sound is balanced, whether you're watching movies or listening to music. The Vizio SB3621n-E8 is the best budget soundbar we've ever heard, period. Read our Vizio SB3621N-E8 review. $133 at Walmart Best soundbar under $100 Creative Stage Sarah Tew/CNET If your price range is limited, for less than a C-note, the Creative Stage offers a bunch of previously unheard-of features including HDMI connectivity and a subwoofer. But what's even more remarkable is that it sounds better than most of its ultrabudget competition, with a soundbar subwoofer that fills the room with sound. A variety of modes makes this a great soundbar for music, concerts and gaming. Great audio quality for gamers and movie fans alike. Read our Creative Stage review. $117 at Amazon Best soundbar with built-in streaming video Roku Smart Soundbar Sarah Tew/CNET With a full-fledged 4K HDR Roku streamer built in and a single voice remote controlling everything, this bar offers a simple all-in-one audio/video solution. This soundbar setup is a breeze; just add to a TV with a simple HDMI connection. Sound quality was very good for a single bar and you can add Roku's optional wireless subwoofer for more punch. It also comes with a much-loved Roku remote control. Read our Roku Smart Soundbar review. $180 at Best Buy Best budget Atmos soundbar Vizio SB36512-F6 Sarah Tew/CNET The Vizio SB36512-F6 proves you don't need to spend a ton to get a high-quality soundbar that can handle the latest Dolby Atmos soundtracks and get multi-room audio. The Vizio SB36512-F6 is a full 5.1.2 immersive audio system for the price of an AV receiver, and its height channels do a solid job of bringing out Atmos effects. You can also stream music from any Google Chromecast-enabled audio app, like Spotify, Pandora, iHeartRadio and Google Play music. Read our Vizio SB36512-F6 review. $422 at Walmart $400 at Best Buy $500 at B&H Photo-Video Best for voice control and multi-room audio Sonos Beam Sarah Tew/CNET If you're interested in setting up a multi-room audio system, a Sonos soundbar is still the best option. The Sonos Beam offers not only the most flexible music system available but also a choice of both Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa built into the bar itself. The sound is built for movies, and adding a pair of Ikea Symphonisk bookshelves will really boost your home theater experience. Since it lacks a sub, it's not quite as powerful-sounding as its rival full-range speakers, but it's still a great little package. Read our Sonos Beam review. $400 at Best Buy $399 at Crutchfield $399 at B&H Photo-Video Best soundbar with Alexa Yamaha YAS-209 Sarah Tew/CNET The Yamaha YAS-209 offers excellent audio quality in a compact soundbar. The addition of Amazon Alexa is useful, allowing voice control to stream music, and the mics work well in loud environments. The soundbar's implementation of DTS Virtual:X offers a rich effect reminiscent of surround speakers. The wireless subwoofer is more articulate and offers more headroom than the competing, and also excellent, Polk Command Bar. However, it's not a MusicCast device, so it won't sync up with other Yamaha MusicCast speakers. Read our Yamaha YAS-209 review. $300 at Walmart $300 at Abt Electronics $300 at Best Buy Best budget bar without a subwoofer Vizio SB362AN-F6 Sarah Tew/CNET The trapezoidal looks may be divisive, but the Vizio SB362An-F6 is the best all-in-one bar for people who want to spend a bare minimum on their living room audio soundbar. It offers elevated audio quality for the money and sounds unexpectedly good with music. Read our VIZIO SB362AN-F6 review. $98 at Walmart $100 at B&H Photo-Video $150 at QVC Best bass without a subwoofer Zvox SB500 Sarah Tew/CNET While you could pay $2,500 for the subwooferless Sennheiser Ambeo (below), the Zvox SB500 is a more affordable audio soundbar for people who don't want to litter their living room with subwoofers or rear speakers yet still prize sound quality. It offers excellent sound modes and tighter bass than every other single-speaker option. Read our Zvox SB500 review. $400 at Walmart $400 at Best Buy Best Atmos surround from a single speaker Sennheiser Ambeo Soundbar Sarah Tew/CNET If you simply must have the fewest number of boxes and remotes in your living space and yet demand the best Atmos performance you can get, this Sennheiser speaker is your guy. It's a single unit, without a subwoofer, but it's able to conjure up the most realistic overhead and "surround" sound effects we've ever heard. It's also controlled entirely via remote control. It's not cheap but it's comparable in price to a full set of surround speakers without the bulk and with 85% of the performance. Read our Sennheiser Ambeo Soundbar review. $2,488 at Abt Electronics $2,500 at Crutchfield $2,500 at Best Buy More home theater buying guides Best universal remotes of 2020 Best soundbars of 2020 under $200 Best soundbars with Amazon Alexa in 2020 Best 75-inch TVs for 2020 Best turntables under $300 in 2020: Audio Technica, Pro-ject, Fluance and more The best wireless speakers to give in 2020 Best over-ear headphones of 2020 Comments Speakers TVs Amazon Bluetooth Sennheiser Vizio Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Best soundbar for 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.