https://www.cnet.com/news/sound-bar-vs-speakers-which-tv-audio-system-sounds-best-in-2020/
Soundbar vs. speakers: Which TV audio system sounds best in 2020? - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Soundbar vs. speakers: Which TV audio system sounds best in 2020? Whether you're looking at a soundbar or a full surround sound system, these are the tips you need to help you spend your money wisely. Ty Pendlebury December 28, 2019 11:12 AM PST The Klipsch Reference Theater Pack is a set of ultra-compact 5.1 surround speakers with a wireless subwoofer. Sarah Tew/CNET If you want to upgrade your TV sound, the big choice is between the convenience and affordability of a soundbar and the sound quality and extra expense of a dedicated multispeaker system. Each type has its pros and cons, but each will enable you to experience better-quality sound in your movies and TV shows. They can also stream music from your phone or voice assistant, like Alexa or Google Assistant. Read more: Best soundbars for 2020 Best soundbars with Amazon Alexa in 2020 Best Sonos speakers starting at $100 Best AV receivers under $500 The best wireless speakers to give in 2020 Best TVs in 2020 Where do you start? First, you'll need to decide how much you want to spend, and how much of your living space you're willing to give up. Soundbars require less money and space, while multispeaker surround setups take more of both. Here are the things you need to know. How much do you want to spend? One of the main advantages of a soundbar system is that you don't need to lay out as much cash. Excellent soundbars can be had for around $100, and spending $200 or more will get you something pretty great. It takes more money to assemble a separate speaker system. You'll need at least two speakers and an AV receiver, which will cost at least $300. From there you'll have a platform that you can build and grow as your finances allow. Buying a complete 5.1 speaker set is even more expensive up front, but will give you full surround sound (with rear speakers, a center speaker for dialogue and a subwoofer for bass) and the results will be that much better. Soundbars Vizio SB3621n-E8: $130 Best budget soundbar Sarah Tew/CNET The Vizio SB3621n-E8 ticks all of the boxes: affordable, great sound, and enough volume to fill your living space. It comes with a separate subwoofer and it offers Bluetooth streaming. It sounds great with both movies and music alike. Read our Vizio SB3621n-E8 review. $133 at Walmart $150 at Best Buy $150 at B&H Photo-Video Now playing: Watch this: Vizio's SB362 solo sound bar is great value for money 1:52 Yamaha YAS-209: $300 Best midrange soundbar, with voice The Yamaha YAS-209 is a significant upgrade on last year's model as it now includes both Wi-Fi streaming and Amazon's Alexa voice assistant. It performs well and represents excellent value, especially if you can find it under $300. Read our Yamaha YAS-209 review. $300 at Walmart $300 at Abt Electronics $300 at Best Buy More choices Best soundbars under $200 Best soundbars overall If you're just starting out, the best way to upgrade your TV sound is with a soundbar. It's simple, everything you need is included in the box and it's easy to set up. There are only a couple of cables to connect, and they don't require multiple speakers in the room. As we discuss in our soundbar buying guide, there are two main types: soundbars that are usually accompanied by a wireless sub, and sound bases. For most people, a soundbar is the best option, and the features to look for are Bluetooth and an optical or HDMI connection. Advantages Affordable Easy to set up Sounds a lot better than TV speakers Self-contained, so it doesn't need a separate box to make it work Some models include advanced features such as Atmos compatibility or surround speakers (or the ability to add them later) Disadvantages Don't sound as good or play as loud as a full surround-sound system, especially in big rooms Usually can't upgrade individual components or add new surround formats Limited features compared to a receiver Spending more won't necessarily improve sound quality. (Soundbars can only be so big without blocking the TV) Speakers and surround sound There are many different brands of receivers and speaker-makers that it can be hard to know where to start. Here's a solid "starter set" to give you an idea of what $700 buys. Pioneer SP-PK52FS: $490 The Pioneer SP-PK52FS is an excellent surround-sound package designed by one of our favorite speaker designers, Andrew Jones. It offers all the elements you need for movies and music and can be upgraded later if you need. The downside? Those big, ugly speakers. Read our Pioneer SP-PK52FS review. $490 at Amazon Onkyo TX-NR585: $330 Sarah Tew/CNET The Onkyo TX-NR585 is a great match for the Pioneer speakers as it offers home-theater thrills and great music replay. It's also loaded with streaming features, support for Dolby Atmos, and will allow you to control it via a Google Assistant smart speaker. It's CNET's current Editors' Choice. Read our Onkyo TX-NR585 review. $330 at Amazon More choices Best home theater speakers Best AV receivers If you're a home-theater fan, then a surround-sound system is probably what you're after. Having a 2.1, 5.1 or full 5.1.4 Atmos delivers an audio experience, for both movies TV shows and movies, that can't be beat by a soundbar at any price. The sound is bigger and more enthralling, an advantage that's particularly important in large rooms. For instance the Klipsch Reference Theater Pack pictured above offers a big sound from a compact system. It's on sale at Amazon right now for $538. At the very least, you'll need a pair of stereo speakers and a receiver or integrated amp. You can also then add surround speakers, Atmos heights and a subwoofer for sound that rivals your local cinema. Though the complexity increases over a soundbar, adding a universal remote will help make the system more user-friendly for the less technical of your friends and family. Advantages Better sound quality, including true surround effects with rear speakers You're no longer bound by manufacturer and can mix and match as you like Adding height or surrounds doesn't mean necessarily buying a whole new system Very flexible, as you can upgrade either the receiver or speakers at a later date. Disadvantages Costs more than a soundbar Takes up more space More complex Wires and more wires Other alternatives Powered speakers: There is an increasing number of powered speakers designed to fill the gap between soundbars and surround systems. These can be straightforward systems like the Klipsch RP-15M or more specialized offerings like the Roku Wireless speakers. Headphones: Some TVs offer headphone jacks or Bluetooth outputs that enable you to connect a pair of headphones. There is a wide variety of models available for every price point. This option is particularly useful for use in environments where you don't want to disturb others. Which should you buy? If you're looking for the simplest possible solution to improving TV sound, get a bar or maybe a pair of powered speakers first. There are plenty of affordable options available, and you don't need to sacrifice style for performance. The sweet spot is between $200 and $300, as spending more than that doesn't guarantee improved sound. If you're serious about sound quality, separates are the only way to go. You can mix and match according to your needs, and it's easier to upgrade once new formats come in -- you won't need to replace everything if you want to add Dolby Atmos, for example. Whichever option you choose, you will never be able to go back to tinny, little TV speakers ever again. Happy listening! Best sound bars under $300 18 Photos Comments Speakers Amazon Bluetooth Roku Vizio Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Soundbar vs. speakers: Which TV audio system sounds best in 2020? Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.