https://www.cnet.com/news/sanitize-your-house-from-coronavirus-5-cleaning-tools-to-use-now/
How to help kill coronavirus in your home and car after you go out - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In How to help kill coronavirus in your home and car after you go out Using EPA-approved products, like Clorox and Lysol, will help you thoroughly disinfect and sanitize your home's surfaces to keep your sanctuary germ-free. Katie Conner March 26, 2020 3:00 AM PDT There are so many surfaces in your home that could be harboring germs. Tyler Lizenby/CNET For the most up-to-date news and information about the coronavirus pandemic, visit the WHO website. The coronavirus is causing countries and states to order residents to stay at home. In many places, you can still go out for essential errands, like buying food at the grocery store, grabbing take-out orders and picking up supplies from the pharmacy. This means you need to be cautious of surfaces you touch in public, like shopping carts, and cognizant of the germs you might bring home. Part of the best way to minimize your exposure to the disease known as COVID-19 is to keep your home disinfected and sanitized. Washing your hands frequently is one of the best steps you can take, but the virus can still cling to surfaces you carry with you into your sanctuary, like your clothes, shoes, car and even your phone (here's how to disinfect your phone). Fortunately, the EPA has released a list of products that are considered effective at killing the virus. Read more: 7 hand soaps to fight germs, from cheap to luxury CNET Coronavirus Update Keep track of the coronavirus pandemic. If you're worried you may have come in contact with someone who tested positive for the virus, or you just want to be extra cautious, you can use cleaning products like Clorox, Lysol, Microban and hydrogen peroxide to sanitize all the surfaces in your home. Make sure you focus on cleaning all the doorknobs, countertops and other high traffic areas during your deep clean. Here are five ways to keep your home sanitized from the coronavirus, and other areas and items you should disinfect, stat. Coronavirus updates FDA warns at-home coronavirus tests are unauthorized and fraudulent Zoom has been a chaotic beacon of light during the coronavirus lockdown FBI says beware of stimulus-package scams Snowden says government surveillance amid COVID-19 could be long lasting Use disinfectant wipes to quickly clean down surfaces Think about the things you touch multiple times a day -- doorknobs, sinks, cabinet handles, refrigerator doors, remote controls -- and how many germs are lingering on those surfaces that you may not think about. Since home is where you're most relaxed, you may not be as militant about washing your hands in your own space as you are in public places. To keep the germs at bay, use a disinfectant wipe, like Clorox Wipes, Lysol Wipes or Purell Wipes, to quickly sanitize those areas. Once or twice a day should do the trick to remove germs, but if someone in your house is sick, you may want to wipe down surfaces more frequently. After you wipe the area, let it air dry to give it time to kill any bacteria that could linger. Read more: 6 essential cold and flu products you need whether you're sick or not Coronavirus in pictures: Scenes from around the world 63 Photos Clean surfaces with a disinfectant spray For areas like your couch and carpet that can't be wiped down, you can use a disinfectant spray, like Lysol, to go after unseen germs. I suggest spraying in a sweeping motion to cover the entire surface, then let it completely dry before sitting down or walking on the surface. You can also spray down countertops, mattresses and tables. If you're out of wipes, you can also aim your disinfecting spray into a paper towel to wipe down sink handles and other smaller surfaces. Products like 409 cleaner are not on the EPA's approved list of products, so we suggest using products that come from the list, like Lysol spray, Clorox spray and Sani-Prime spray. Now playing: Watch this: Coronavirus lockdown: Why social distancing saves lives 5:41 Use a bleach mixture to clean floors Your shoes step on a lot of gross stuff during the day and if you don't take them off when you come into the house, you could track in viruses and other germs. To clean the floors in your kitchen and bathroom, the CDC recommends using 1 cup of bleach mixed with 5 gallons of water to mop your floors. Note that you'll need to use a different disinfectant for porous floors -- for example, if you use bleach on hardwood, it can remove the stain color. Instead, use a disinfecting wet mop cloth on your hardwood floors or combine half a cup of white vinegar and 1 gallon of water. Clean up with hydrogen peroxide Hydrogen peroxide isn't only effective for whitening teeth -- in fact, the CDC says that 3% hydrogen peroxide was able to inactivate rhinovirus within eight minutes. When you pour the substance directly on surfaces like your sink, countertops or toilets, you'll need to let it soak for around 10 to 15 minutes. This will give it time to completely do its job. After you let it sit, scrub the area and then rinse with water. It's also safe to clean your toothbrush with hydrogen peroxide since the bristles can harbor bacteria. Disinfect your floors with bleach. Alina Bradford/CNET Keep your home protected with Microban 24 A new product released by Proctor and Gamble called Microban 24 claims to keep surfaces protected for 24 hours. The antibacterial cleaner comes in several forms, including a disinfectant spray, a bathroom cleaner and a multipurpose cleaner. Although it isn't on the EPA list, the company says that when it's used as directed as a disinfectant, it is effective against viruses, including the coronavirus. If used every day, this can help prevent germs from living on surfaces in your home. A good method would be to start your morning off by sanitizing with the Microban 24 so that your house is protected all day. Now playing: Watch this: Coronavirus and COVID-19: Everything you need to know 5:50 What to use to clean your car While you're out, you're exposed to germs and viruses that can follow you back into your car. A good idea is to sanitize these parts on a daily basis: Car door handles and controls, keys or start button, steering wheel, gear shift, seats, all buttons and knobs on your dash, sun visor, anything touchscreen, the console and cup holders. You can use disinfectant wipes on most surfaces, excluding any leather and touchscreens. There are specific wipes made for cleaning your car's leather. If your car has a touchscreen, you'll want to use a microfiber cloth to wipe it down (unless your manual says otherwise). For cloth seats, a spray like Lysol is considered effective when given time to dry. If you've got a touchscreen in your car, clean it frequently. Antuan Goodwin/Roadshow Other household items you should consider disinfecting Your computer keyboard and mouse (here's how) Google Home ($99 at Walmart) and Amazon Echo ($52 at Amazon) speakers TV remote and TV buttons All frequently used electronics, like tablets and phones Debit cards As the world adjusts to the new reality of COVID-19 as a pandemic, we have more tips to help keep you protected. Here's how to avoid the coronavirus with these nine practical tips to limit exposure without isolating yourself, why you shouldn't make your own hand sanitizer and how to help keep the virus off your phone. The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Health and Wellness Coronavirus Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: How to help kill coronavirus in your home and car after you go out Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.