https://www.cnet.com/news/ctia-attendees-ponder-the-iphone/
CTIA attendees ponder the iPhone - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CTIA attendees ponder the iPhone CTIA organizers devote an entire panel session to a single product from a company brand-new to the mobile phone market that didn't even attend the show: Apple's iPhone. Tom Krazit October 25, 2007 3:41 PM PDT Influence is tough to measure, but it's one of those things where you know it when you see it. Apple's influence on the mobile phone industry after just over 90 days as a player was evident at the CTIA show Tuesday. Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer didn't mention the iPhone specifically in his keynote address, but noted that Apple "has done some nice work." After Ballmer's keynote, a friend of some staffers in Microsoft's booth enthusiastically demonstrated his iPhone for an audience checking out the latest Windows Mobile phones. And a panel of five mobile executives spent 90 minutes discussing the impact of the iPhone on their businesses and the future of the industry. Surrounded by Windows Mobile phones, a friend of the blue-shirted staffers at Microsoft's booth shows off his iPhone. Tom Krazit/CNET News.com That's not because they're scared Apple is eating into their piece of the pie, observed Motorola's David Ulmer, senior director of entertainment products. Apple may have sold over a million iPhones last quarter, but "some of us sold that many before breakfast," he quipped: The entire mobile phone industry ships well over a billion handsets a year these days. Instead, panelists recognized the iPhone as bringing two major changes to their industry. First, the iPhone is the "first mass-market non-carrier controlled event," said Adam Guy, general manager of the telecom and media practice at Compete, a market research firm. Apple owns the experience and the relationship with iPhone users, not the carrier, and that's a feat the other hardware companies have yet to pull off. The iPhone also is a new way of looking at smartphones: Is it a computer? A phone? An iPod? Lee Ott, director of product management for Yahoo Mobile, said, "The iPhone is the first phone that puts the Internet and data right up on a par with calling," explaining that while there are plenty of phones out there capable of browsing the Internet, few of those products emphasize data as much as they do voice calls. In fact, the iPhone is already one of the top five devices in the world that accesses Yahoo Mobile on a daily basis, he said. Well then, why didn't the established players figure out that formula? Given the lack of a carrier representative on stage, panelists spent a fair amount of time discussing the sins of the carriers. Ulmer said that Motorola sells tons of touch-screen capable phones in China, but when they approached U.S. carriers with similar designs two years ago, they were rebuffed by executives who said, "Come back when you've got a keypad." He also noted that in the past, it was more profitable for carriers to emphasize voice and text messaging on bandwidth-constrained networks over interesting video or data applications, so that's what they did. That's changing as 3G networks become more widespread, but helps explain why the iPhone caught the industry flat-footed. But these are companies with deep pockets and enough experience to know which way the wind blows. All major U.S. carriers and most major phone manufacturers will have an answer to the iPhone available by the end of this year that emphasizes a better user experience, said Sam Altman, CEO of Loopt, a start-up that lets friends track each other's whereabouts through their mobile phones. "Even for people that don't have iPhones, they expect their phone to behave like that." Sometimes, it takes an outsider to remind an industry where it needs to be, said Cyriac Roeding, executive vice president for CBS Mobile. "For the first time, you have a Silicon Valley company disrupting the entire (mobile) market. The fact that we are sitting here talking about the iPhone, and that Motorola is joining us to talk about the iPhone, shows the power of the iPhone. It's an awesome version 1.0." Comments Culture Mobile Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: CTIA attendees ponder the iPhone Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.