https://www.cnet.com/news/tough-to-find-instant-iphone-gratification-at-at-t-stores/
Tough to find instant iPhone gratification at AT&T stores - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Tough to find instant iPhone gratification at AT&T stores An informal survey of AT&T stores across the country suggests each store had no more than 100 iPhones prior to launch--many with far less--while Apple stores had plenty. Tom Krazit June 30, 2007 5:41 PM PDT Those iPhone hopefuls who had planned to avoid long lines at Apple stores by visiting AT&T stores had to get lucky to secure one yesterday, and replacements might not arrive for weeks. Launch day for the iPhone went very smoothly at Apple's retail stores. Plenty of units were available and long lines of customers were moved swiftly in and out of the store. But 12 of 15 AT&T stores surveyed Saturday sold out of their allotments on Friday night, which ranged from 30 units to 90 units. Only one store in Chicago still had 4GB iPhones (click for CNET's review) available Saturday afternoon. Traffic was high at the downtown San Francisco Apple store one day after iPhone Day. Tom Krazit/CNET News.com The pro move leading up to iPhone Day seemed to be to avoid the long lines at Apple stores and slink over to your nearest AT&T store, which even Apple CEO Steve Jobs suggested to The Huffington Post at the D: All Things Digital conference. In fact, one couple waiting in line at the San Francisco Apple store about 60 spots back left that store at 3:30 a.m. Friday morning to become first in line at an AT&T store just a few blocks away. But earlier Saturday an AT&T spokesman told Reuters the company was "virtually out" of iPhones at its stores. In Saturday's survey, the AT&T store that received the highest number of iPhones prior to launch was in Redmond, Wash. (zing!). It had 90 iPhones, and all sold out Friday night. A Bolyston Street store in Boston had 70 iPhones, all of which were gone by Saturday morning. A store in Des Moines, Iowa, received 45 iPhones, 37 of which sold Friday night and the remainder were gone by Saturday afternoon. A store in Indianapolis sold 30 iPhones in an hour Friday night, and only received two as reinforcements Saturday morning. Yep, those are gone. A couple of stores had 4GB models remaining on Saturday. But the AT&T store on 5th Street in Austin sold its 4GB models Saturday afternoon, leaving the Roosevelt Road AT&T store in Chicago as the only store in the survey with 4GB models remaining. Dozens of shoppers get their first taste of the iPhone. Tom Krazit/CNET News.com Meanwhile, Apple retail stores were still selling iPhones Saturday afternoon. Most of those who were crowded around the iPhone demonstration table at the downtown San Francisco store Saturday appeared to be just taking it for a spin, but several shoppers left the store with iPhones. As of Saturday afternoon, Apple's Web site was still projecting that units would be available Sunday, but check back after 9 p.m. to be sure. If you want an iPhone, go to an Apple store. If you don't have one of those around, a local AT&T store should be able to take your order and ship you an iPhone from its distribution center once the company receives additional models, which could be anywhere from a week to two weeks, several store employees said. You can also buy one online from Apple with a ship time of two to four weeks. If you want to get ripped off, buy one on eBay or Craigslist from the dozens of sellers charging a mark-up for a product that's readily available. We'll take a closer look at the secondary market Sunday and Monday, as well as the activation issues that plagued several new iPhone owners this weekend. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Tough to find instant iPhone gratification at AT&T stores Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.