https://www.cnet.com/news/intel-cutting-margin-expectations-on-soft-flash-prices/
Intel cutting margin expectations on soft flash prices - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Intel cutting margin expectations on soft flash prices Softer-than-expected flash memory prices will knock Intel's profits down a tad in the first quarter, the company announced late Monday. Tom Krazit March 5, 2008 5:44 PM PST Updated March 5 at 5:40 p.m. PT to clarify paragraph on Intel's flash business. Intel's profits will fade a bit in the first quarter as the company bears the brunt of falling flash memory prices. The company announced late on Monday that it was reducing its expectations for gross margin from 56 percent to 54 percent "due to lower than expected prices for NAND flash memory chips." In a way, it's a narrowing of Intel's forecast, since the previous expectations came with a "plus or minus a couple of points" caveat. But narrowing to the low end usually isn't that well received. Intel is trying to get out of the boom-then-bust NOR flash memory business, setting up a joint partnership with STMicroelectronics to create a company called Numonyx, which is expected to open for business by the end of the first quarter. With stakes of less than 50 percent, both companies will then be able to get their flash businesses assets off their books. UPDATED 3/5 545pm to clarify that Numonyx is involved with NOR flash memory, and that only the assets vanish with that deal. Intel will still record a portion of Numonyx's profit or loss in accordance with its stake. Until then, however, the volatile flash memory market is very much an Intel concern. Also, 2008 doesn't appear to be shaping up as the tech industry's best year in recent memory, and falling flash prices might be a harbinger of further things to come. Apple was reported to have cut its own flash memory purchases for 2008, with apparent expectations that the consumer tech spending frenzy of the past several years has finally run its course as credit tightens and the prices of other goods soars. On the other hand, Intel makes a type of flash memory called NOR, which has been losing ground to NAND flash memory. Intel will host an investors meeting Wednesday in Santa Clara, Calif., that might provide some further details on what the chip maker expects from the rest of the year. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Intel cutting margin expectations on soft flash prices Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.