https://www.cnet.com/news/skateboarding-at-the-2020-olympics-qualification-structure-scoring/
Everything you should know about skateboarding at the 2020 Summer Olympics - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Everything you should know about skateboarding at the 2020 Summer Olympics This new Olympic sport features two disciplines, dizzying courses and loud music. Amanda Capritto August 10, 2019 5:30 AM PDT The eclectic sport of skateboarding will debut at the 2020 Olympics in Japan. Carroll Photo/Getty Images Skateboarding, a rebellious street sport, will debut at the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo. Often seen as renegade or rebellious, characterized by dizzying midair twists and turns, skateboarding will make its way into the structured and mainstream world of the Olympic Games. Though the International Olympic Committee (IOC) unanimously supported skateboarding for inclusion at the 129th IOC session in Rio de Janeiro in 2016, not all skateboarders feel the same way. Some athletes have expressed gratitude and excitement at the idea that skateboarding will get more exposure as a sport, while others worry that the Olympics will damage the culture and lifestyle that accompany it. I suppose no one will know how the sport might change until the Olympics arrive next year, but for now, you can read all about the structure, scoring and qualifications process for skateboarding at the 2020 Olympics. The park discipline will feature a course that resembles a large basin with lots of dips, twists and turns. Daniel Milchev/Getty Images What will the event be like? Skateboarding at the Olympics features two disciplines: park and street. The park competition will take place on a hollowed-out course featuring a complex series of twists and turns. Park courses resemble large bowls with steep sides, nearly vertical at the top. Skaters send themselves to dizzying heights, performing jaw-dropping spins and tricks midair, and then gracefully bring themselves back down to the bowl to do it all over again on the other side. The street competition features a straight course with stairs, handrails, benches, walls and slopes to mimic a real street. This kind of skateboarding is characterized by riding along curbs and rails, leaping into the air without using hands, and that familiar grind of board on metal. Olympic skateboarders will experience at least some of the creative freedom they get in their home parks and streets: They're free to choose which parts of the course to cover and, of course, which tricks to perform. Also, in an attempt to maintain the feel of the sport, music will accompany each rider. Only one athlete rides at a time, and competitors get three timed runs to post their best score. The street discipline mimics what it's like to skateboard in a city environment. The course will feature rails, benches, curbs and other things you'd find on a real street. MoMo Productions/Getty Images How do athletes qualify to skateboard at the 2020 Olympics? The IOC has allotted 80 quota spots for skateboarders at the 2020 Olympics. There will be 40 spots for women across the two categories and 40 for men, with 20 skaters in both the street and park competitions for each gender. Between the 80 qualifying athletes, 38 men and 38 women will come from different nations, with four total slots (two men and two women) reserved for the host nation of Japan. Each National Olympic Committee (NOC), the governing body for each country's Olympic goings-on, is allowed six men and six women for skateboarding, but no more than three athletes per gender per event. Qualifications are managed by World Skate, the international governing body for roller sports. Like all other Olympic sports, skateboarders must comply with the Olympic Charter to be eligible. Aside from that, the qualifying pathway for each event (20 athletes) is as follows: Three athletes will directly qualify as the highest-ranked skaters in the 2020 Season World Skate World Skateboarding Championship events. 16 athletes will qualify through the Olympic World Skateboarding Rankings (OWSR) as of June 1, 2020. One athlete will qualify as the allocated host nation slot. This person is the highest-ranked skater in the host nation; in this case, Japan. There are 16 available slots to fill via the OWSR, but no nation can fill more than three. For example, the US may have five skaters in the top 16, but only the first three of those five will qualify. Once a country's three spots are filled, the qualification moves down to the next country that hasn't fulfilled its quota. Learn more about the qualifications process. When and where is the skateboarding event? Olympic skateboarders will compete in Tokyo at the Aomi Urban Sports Venue, which will also host 3x3 Basketball and Sport Climbing. The competition takes place throughout the entire Games, from July 24 to Aug. 9. How will athletes be judged? Judges will score athletes based on speed, difficulty, originality, timing, stability and the overall flow of the performance. One important skill judges will be looking for is the ability to seem suspended in midair. Now playing: Watch this: Intel developing 3D Athlete Tracking for Tokyo 2020 Olympics 3:36 The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Sports Notification on Notification off Fitness Close Discuss: Everything you should know about skateboarding at the 2020 Summer Olympics Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.