https://www.cnet.com/news/best-places-to-buy-prescription-glasses-online-for-2019/
Best places to buy prescription glasses online in 2020 - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best places to buy prescription glasses online in 2020 Trying to figure out where to buy the best online glasses? Here's the quick skinny on the top e-tailers out there. David Carnoy February 14, 2020 5:30 AM PST Leer en español Best online glasses overall Warby Parker Jump to details See at Warby Parker Best for fitness freaks Roka Eyewear Jump to details See at Roka Best for style selection GlassesUSA.com Jump to details See at GlassesUSA Best for swapping lenses Lensabl Jump to details See at Lensabl Best for the budget conscious Zenni Jump to details See at Zenni Best for giving back Coastal Jump to details See at Coastal Show more (1 items) The number of websites that sell prescription glasses and sunglasses has proliferated over the past few years -- and it's not just Warby Parker. More and more people are figuring out the same thing about prescription eyeglasses that they learned about books 25 years ago: It's not only easy to buy glasses and contact lenses online, but it's a whole lot cheaper, too -- as in hundreds of dollars in savings. To that end, we've pulled together the six best online glasses vendors we've found. Keep in mind that all of these services have been personally used by me or someone on CNET's staff. But before we dive in, note the following prerequisites, caveats and tips: You'll need to know your prescription and pupillary distance from your optometrist before you use any of these sites -- so make sure you get a hard copy the next time you get your vision checked by an eye doctor. Once you have that, most of these sites will let you upload a picture of the prescription from your phone the first time you buy something. Most of the sites highlighted here offer some sort of discount for first-time customers. That means the first time you buy glasses can be when you get the best deal, so it can pay to try several online retailers before buying glasses online. See How to buy glasses online and save hundreds of dollars for more tips. Read more: Use your phone to check your vision | Do blue light blocking glasses actually work? Best online glasses overall Warby Parker Screenshot by David Carnoy/CNET Several CNET editors have bought their glasses on Warby Parker, which has a good selection of sharp-looking frames. While glasses start at only $95 with a single-vision prescription, chances are you're going to pay a bit more -- around $150-$200, according to my colleagues -- based on the type of frame you choose, your prescription and type of lens (sunglasses and non-prescription glasses start at $175, and progressive lenses in both eyeglasses and sunglasses start at $295). But the finished products tend to be a step up from what more budget-oriented sites offer. Notable site features: The company's app for iPhone X or later iPhone models -- sorry, there's no Android version yet -- allows you to search the site by frame size and to try on various frames virtually (it works surprisingly well) and better yet, you can try up to five frames at home for five days for free. Once your five days are up, you place your box in the mail with the prepaid return label. Hopefully, you find at least one style that you like from among the five you picked for the home trial. Warby also has physical optical stores in some locations around the country if you want to go in and try frames that way. Some of these locations also offer eye tests -- and that prescription can be used at Warby or elsewhere. The online glasses store also has a "buy a pair, give a pair" program, so for every pair of glasses you purchase, the company distributes a pair to someone in need, either for free or for "ultra-affordable prices." (See details.) Shipping times: According to Warby: "Single vision glasses take 7 to 10 business days to reach you from the time we have all of your order information. Sunglasses and progressives take 10 to 12 business days to reach you." (These estimates jibe with the experience of CNET editors who have used the service.) See at Warby Parker Best for fitness freaks Roka Eyewear David Carnoy/CNET Austin, Texas-based Roka has only recently branched out into the online prescription eyewear business. The retailer's marketing slogan is "The most technically advanced eyewear that doesn't look technical," and its glasses are impressively light, durable and stylish looking. Like Warby Parker, these are at the higher-end of the online prescription eyeglasses spectrum, with prices of around $200 for a completed pair of prescription glasses, depending on some of the lens upgrades you might add. Roka started out making athletic glasses for runners, bikers and triathletes, and many of its prescription frames are bendable at the ends and have rubberized tracks that help you get a more secure fit. The frames also come with three sizes of grippy nose pads to ensure a better fit. They are among the most comfortable glasses I've worn -- and they really stay on your face. Notable site features: Like Warby, there's a home-trial program. You can try up to four frames at home for up to seven days. The box ships with a prepaid return label -- you just drop it off at a post office to send it back. Shipping times: Roka doesn't provide general estimates, and instead will give you a shipping time estimate when individual orders are placed based on which shipping option you choose (next-day, second-day or ground). See at Roka Best for style selection GlassesUSA.com Screenshot by David Carnoy/CNET Founded 10 years ago in Israel, GlassesUSA.com offers more affordable options for buying prescription eyeglasses online than sites like Warby Parker and Roka, with full prescription glasses starting at $38. But it also features several premium high quality brands, including Ray-Ban and Persol. The designer eyewear lists for more -- frames start at $89 for basic completed RX glasses -- but discounts can bring them down in price. The one-stop shop offers a 65% discount off your first frames, as well as discounts on lens upgrades (photochromic, for instance), contact lenses and reading glasses. It also recently launched a landing page for flash sales on non-prescription sunglasses. And around major holidays you can look for seasonal promotions on men's eyeglasses, women's glasses and contact lenses. Notable site features: A virtual "mirror" feature lets you upload your photo to the site and see what a pair of eyeglasses looks like on your face shape to help you find the perfect pair of optical frames. And the company is upping the try-at-home ante. Instead of just sending you the frames, GlassesUSA will send you the frame with your actual prescription in it so you can truly try it out for up to 14 days -- though the feature is limited to certain frames and lens options. The site also offers a 100% money-back guarantee so you can return your eye glasses if you don't like what you ultimately get. And while we've spotted a few negative online reviews for GlassesUSA.com, the company seems to diligently follow up and respond to each one. Shipping times: Expect 7 to 10 days between ordering and arrival of GlassesUSA.com products, depending on types of glasses and the shipping option you choose. See at GlassesUSA Best for swapping lenses Lensabl Screenshot by David Carnoy/CNET What do you do if you've already got a pair of eyeglasses frames you like but your prescription is old (or the lenses on your frames are scratched) and you just want to replace the lenses? Lensabl is one of the few sites that allows you to send in your own pair of frames and get a new prescription lens for them. Its motto is, "Your frames, our lenses," with prices starting at $77 for buying a basic pair of single-vision lenses. A pair of tinted sunglasses lenses start at $97. You upload your prescription online, pick the type of lens you want, and then Lensabl sends you a box with a prepaid return shipping label. You simply mail them your glasses in the box (shipping is free). First-time customers get 15% off. This site is also a good option if you have an old pair of glasses that you want to turn into prescription sunglasses. Notable site features: For $40, you can renew your prescription online. Not everybody qualifies to take the online eye exam -- you have to answer some questions to see if you qualify -- but if you do, Lensabl says, "All you need is your computer, smartphone and about 15 minutes of time." Your results will be reviewed by an eye doctor or optometrist licensed in your state who will then issue you a new prescription via email. Shipping times: Lensabl pledges "about two weeks" turnaround time from when you ship your frames to when you'll receive them back. See at Lensabl Best for the budget conscious Zenni Screenshot by David Carnoy/CNET Zenni has been around for awhile, and it's the first site I used to buy eyeglasses online. It's more of a budget-minded site, and over the years, I got some nice deals on cheap glasses, particularly when Zenni was running its occasional three-for-two glasses sales. I've had both standard eyeglasses and prescription sunglasses made here and so has fellow editor David Katzmaier, who has since graduated to Warby Parker (he said, however, he would still buy prescription sunglasses at Zenni because they're cheap and decent enough). Notable site features: There's a Frame Fit "mirror" feature that allows you to upload a photo and see the frames on your face, as well as new "virtual" try-on feature (powered by Ditto) that allows you to see the glasses on your face as you move around using your computer's webcam or your phone's camera. This is similar to the virtual try-on feature that Warby Parker offers. Shipping times: "Your eyeglasses are delivered around two weeks from the time we receive your order," says Zenni. In my experience, that sometimes stretches out closer to three weeks. See at Zenni Best for giving back Coastal Screenshot by David Carnoy/CNET Coastal shares some similarities to online retailer Zenni in that it leads with low prices, a 40% discount for new customers and sporadic two-for-one deals around various holidays. It doesn't have any virtual-fit features, but there is an option to input the size of your current frames and the site will serve up options based on those measurements that will be a good fit for your face. Coastal does offer some premium brand frames (Ray-Ban, Oakley and others), but that takes your price up to over $100 with lenses. Notable site features: Coastal has a philanthropic partnership with the Essilor Vision Foundation to improve the sight of people who can't afford glasses. Coastal says that "for every pair of glasses bought, we will donate a pair of glasses to someone in need." Shipping times: Expect 10 to 14 days. See at Coastal This story was originally published last year. The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Health and Wellness Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: Best places to buy prescription glasses online in 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.