https://www.cnet.com/news/8-best-cookware-sets-of-2019/
Our favorite cookware sets of 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Our favorite cookware sets of 2020 Including our budget pick and favorite set for small kitchens. Chowhound Staff February 15, 2020 10:08 PM PST Amazon Whether you're shopping for a gift, moving into your first house or simply replacing old pots and pans, you can't go wrong buying a full set of cookware. This ensures you'll have all the essential equipment for cooking up a delicious meal, and as an added bonus, your collection of pots and pans will look beautifully cohesive. There are so many cookware sets to choose from, however, ranging from under $100 to over $1,000. It can be a tough choice, especially if you're not familiar with common cookware brands or materials that can include stainless steel, ceramic, non-stick coating and enameled cast iron. To help make your decision a little easier, here are some high-quality products that are also our absolute favorite cookware sets by various categories that you can buy today: Read more: Our 10 favorite direct-to-consumer cookware brands of 2020 | Best gifts for foodies in 2020 Our favorite overall: All-Clad D3 Tri-Ply Bonded cookware set Our favorite under $100 set: T-fal Titanium Nonstick cookware set, 12-piece Our favorite $200 set: Cuisinart Multiclad Pro Stainless Steel 12-piece cookware set Our favorite nonstick set: Cuisinart GreenGourmet Nonstick 12-piece cookware set Our favorite stainless-steel set: Tramontina 12-Piece Stainless Steel Tri-Ply Clad cookware set Our favorite copper set: Calphalon Tri-Ply Copper 10-Piece cookware set Our favorite cast-iron set: Lodge Seasoned Cast Iron 5-piece bundle Our favorite set for small kitchens: Calphalon Premier Space Saving Nonstick 6-piece set What to look for when buying a cookware set There are a number of factors you'll want to consider when shopping for the best cookware set for your needs. First of all, there's the choice of material. Cookware is commonly made from aluminum, stainless steel, cast iron, copper or a combination of several materials, and each type of metal has its pros and cons. Aluminum pieces are typically less expensive, for example, but they're also less durable. Stainless steel can withstand heavier use, but it costs more and isn't as great at conducting heat (which is why stainless-steel pans often have an aluminum core). And pans with a non-stick coating can make clean up easier. Now playing: Watch this: Keep your kitchen knives sharper and safer 1:58 You'll also want to think about what pieces you need -- if you already have a stockpot you love, for example, you might want to look for a set without one to save a little money. Further, make sure to carefully look at what's included in each set, as some brands try to "inflate" the number of pieces by including small utensils like spoons and spatulas that you might already own. Read more 8 cardinal cookware sins you don't realize you're committing Exclusive sale: Get $20 off this bestselling pan and knife bundle Our favorite Dutch ovens in 2020: Le Creuset, Lodge, Staub Other important considerations include the type of stove you have -- for instance, not all cookware works on induction cooktops -- as well as how you plan to use the pieces. Some cookware is dishwasher- and oven-safe, while other sets need to be cared for by hand or can't withstand certain types of oven heat. We've taken all these factors into account as we selected the following cookware sets for our buyer's guide. After hours of research, reading product reviews, comparing brands and taking a deep dive into their reviews, we've landed on these eight great cookware sets for any type of home cook. Our favorite overall cookware set All-Clad D3 tri-ply bonded 10-piece cookware set Amazon If you want the absolute best cookware set, no matter the price, arguably the best option is this 10-piece set from All-Clad. While it's not cheap, this set of stainless-steel cookware will last for the rest of your life if taken care of properly, making it a worthwhile investment for home chefs. This set consists of both 8- and 10-inch frying pans, 2- and 3-quart saucepans with lids, a 3-quart saute pan with lid and an 8-quart stockpot with lid. All the pieces are made from three-ply stainless steel with a thick-gauge aluminum core for better conduction and more even heat distribution, and they feature riveted stainless-steel handles. The pots and pans are warp-resistant, induction-compatible, dishwasher-safe and oven-safe up to 600 degrees (without their lids). These products are made in the US and come with a limited lifetime warranty. Reviewers say they heat evenly and look beautiful -- most agree that they're 100% worth the investment! $680 at Amazon Read more: Best refrigerators for 2020 Our favorite cookware set under $100 T-fal titanium nonstick 12-piece cookware set Amazon For those outfitting their first home, a budget-friendly cookware set might be more practical. In this case, you can't go wrong with this 10-piece nonstick set from T-fal. T-fal cookware is known for its affordable prices, and this set has everything a novice chef needs to get started in the kitchen. With this bundle, you get both 8- and 9-inch frying pans, 1- and 2-quart saucepans, a 3-quart deep saute pan, a 5-quart Dutch oven, four tempered glass lids, and utensils including a slotted spatula and a spoon. The cookware is made from aluminum and features the company's "Titanium Advanced" nonstick finish to ensure your eggs always slide right out. Additionally, the pans feature a "thermospot temperature indicator" that shows when the pan is preheated to the proper temperature -- it's a helpful hack for those just starting out with cooking. Plus, reviewers rave about the quality and performance of these wallet-friendy pans, writing that the cookware "really does make you a better cook." $96 at Amazon Our favorite cookware set under $200 Cuisinart Multiclad Pro stainless-steel 12-piece cookware set Amazon Cuisinart offers quality midprice cookware, and many people have good things to say about the 12-piece set from this brand. The pots and pans have an elegant, minimalist look and have a variety of features that will make your time in the kitchen more enjoyable. This set gives you 1.5- and 3-quart saucepans with lids, 8- and 10-inch open skillets, a 3.5-quart saute pan and lid, an 8-quart stockpot and lid and a steamer insert with matching lid. The pans are made with a pure aluminum core, triple-ply stainless steel walls and a beautiful brushed finish. The rims are tapered for drip-free pouring, and the cookware has "Heat Surround" technology that allows even surface heat distribution along the sides and walls -- so say goodbye to hot spots! The Cuisinart set is dishwasher- and oven-safe up to 550 degrees, and it can be used on induction cookware. According to reviewers, these pots and pans will last for years if you take care of them properly, and many say they perform as well as other high-end stainless steel pans. $197 at Amazon Our favorite nonstick cookware set Cuisinart GreenGourmet Nonstick 12-piece cookware set Amazon No one loves scrubbing burnt food off the bottom of a favorite skillet, which is why nonstick cookware is so popular. The nonstick pots and pans in this 12-piece set from Cuisinart are incredibly easy to care for, as pretty much all food will slide right off the scratch-resistant, ceramic-based nonstick coating. They're made from hard-anodized aluminum to ensure even heat distribution and eliminate hot spots, and they're oven-safe to 400 degrees. Important note though, non-stick coating doesn't hold up against metal utensils, so use wood or silicone utensils when you're cooking with this set. This set consists of an 8-inch skillet, a 10-inch frying pan with lid, 1.5- and 2.5-quart saucepans with lids, a 3-quart "everyday" pan with lid, a 6-quart Dutch oven with lid and a steamer insert. Because the set is part of Cuisinart's GreenGourmet line, the products feature an eco-friendly nonstick coating and the handles are made from 70% recycled steel. $151 at Amazon Our favorite stainless-steel cookware set Tramontina 12-Piece Stainless Steel Tri-Ply Clad cookware set Walmart Stainless-steel pans are undeniably pretty, and they also deliver in terms of performance, as this metal is incredibly durable. If you're partial to stainless steel, you'll like this 12-piece cookware set from Tramontina, as it provides unbeatable heat diffusion and durability. In this set, you'll find 10- and 12-inch frying pans, 5-, 3- and 1.5-quart saucepans with lids, a 5-quart Dutch oven with lid and a 12-quart stockpot with lid. The cookware is made from triple-ply stainless steel and features riveted, ergonomic handles. All of the pieces can be put in the dishwasher and are oven-safe up to 500 degrees. Plus, their precision-fitted lids help to lock in flavor, and reviewers say you can't beat this set for price and performance. $220 at Walmart Our favorite copper cookware set Calphalon tri-ply copper 10-piece cookware set Amazon This collection of copper cookware from Calphalon will look absolutely stunning in your kitchen -- and their performance is nothing to scoff at, either! The set consists of 8- and 10-inch frying pans, 1.5- and 2.5-quart saucepans with lids, a 3-quart saute pan with lid and a 6-quart stock pot with lid. These pieces feature a lustrous brushed-copper exterior and satin stainless-steel interiors and lids, and they have an inner aluminum core for superior heat conduction. The riveted handles are designed to be ergonomic and resist heat, and all the pans feature flared rings for easier pouring. You can put these pieces of cookware in the oven or broiler, but they don't work with induction cooktops and shouldn't be put in the dishwasher. People absolutely rave about the beautiful appearance of these Calphalon pans, but be warned that copper cookware requires more maintenance than your average stainless-steel pan. $275 at Amazon Read more: How to clean cast iron Our favorite cast-iron cookware set Lodge seasoned cast-iron 5-piece bundle Amazon Cast iron is ideal for searing, braising, roasting and more. It's also super-durable. All that said, this five-piece pre-seasoned cast iron bundle from Lodge will get plenty of use in your kitchen. It consists of a 10.5-inch griddle, 8- and 10.25-inch skillets, a 5-quart Dutch oven and a lid that fits on the larger skillet and the Dutch oven. The cooking surface of each piece is pre-seasoned with 100% vegetable oil and the pieces need to be hand-washed and dried to maintain the integrity of the seasoning. Reviewers say that every piece in this set is high-quality, and many note that five pieces for less than $100 is a bargain for a good cookware set. $70 at Amazon Read more: The best portable grills for city dwellers and tailgaters Our favorite cookware set for small kitchens Calphalon Premier Space Saving nonstick 6-piece set Amazon A large collection of cookware can quickly take over your kitchen cabinets, and if you live in a smaller home or apartment, the Space Saving collection from Calphalon will be your best friend. These pans are specially designed to stack together neatly, taking up 30% less space. This six-piece set consists of 8- and 10-inch fry pans, a 3.5-quart pour-and-strain saucepan with cover and a 3-quart saute pan with cover. The pans are made from hard-anodized aluminum with a nonstick finish, and what's unique is that they're metal utensil-friendly -- there are multiple layers of the nonstick finish to resist scratching when they're stacked. The pieces have stainless-steel handles, and you can pop them in the dishwasher for easy cleaning. Buyers say these pans "exceeded expectations," performing beautifully and saving space in the cupboard. $255 at Amazon This article was written for Chowhound by Camryn Rabideau. Originally published in December. CNET Holiday Gift Guide 2019 Holiday gift guide 2019: CNET editors' top picks Stocking stuffers: Best tech gifts under $25 Best holiday gifts for under $50 Best holiday gifts under $100 for 2019 Best holiday gifts under $250 for 2019 Best holiday gifts under $500 for 2019 Comments Appliances Amazon Cuisinart Notification on Notification off Deals Close Discuss: Our favorite cookware sets of 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.