https://www.cnet.com/news/should-you-buy-a-new-tv-for-black-friday-or-wait/
Should you buy a new TV now, or wait? - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Should you buy a new TV now, or wait? Sales are going strong now, but new technologies are always around the corner. Is now a good time to buy a TV? Geoffrey Morrison November 26, 2019 4:00 AM PST Leer en español Geoffrey Morrison/CNET From 4K to HDR, OLED to QLED, Mini-LED to MicroLED, new TV tech buzzwords are swarming right now. There's also a seemingly constant stream of sales, from Prime Day to Black Friday to Cyber Monday to Super Bowl sales and more, all promising lower prices and the ultimate deal. All of which raises the question: Is now a good time to buy a new TV? Should you jump on that great TV deal today, wait for a better price tomorrow or see what new models and new technologies get announced at CES in January? Believe it or not, there are some pretty easy answers to all those questions. Read more: Best TVs for 2020 | Best 55-inch TVs for 2020 Now playing: Watch this: We find the best television available today 17:04 Are you happy with what you have now? Forget all the new tech. If your TV works and you're happy with it, keep it. Don't feel any pressure to upgrade. Modern TVs are, on average, brighter and have better picture quality than the TVs from a few years ago. Unless you're the type of videophile who wants to tweak every setting and fixates on nits and color accuracy, however, you probably don't need a new TV. The pressure to upgrade is pervasive in our tech culture, but TVs tend to last longer, and be perfectly functional longer, than most devices. They don't, for example, have batteries that lose capacity like mobile phones, or have wires that wear out like headphones. A TV from 5 or even 10 years ago likely works fine, though it might not look as good as the current 4K HDR TVs. So again, if that's not a huge deal for you, you can likely keep what you have for a few more years. If your TV is having issues, or you just want something larger, that's a different story. New TVs are much cheaper per inch than TVs of the past. You'll be able to replace your current TV with something the same size, looks better and is cheaper than your old TV. Or you can pay the same amount as your old TV and get something that's far bigger. Sales The biggest days for TV sales are, of course, Black Friday and Cyber Monday. In 2019 there were some incredibly cheap 4K TVs on offer. But that's not the whole story. First of all, the TVs that get the biggest discounts are usually either no-name brands, or low-end models from name brands. They're fine if you just want a cheap TV, but they're not going to offer the picture quality of an even slightly higher-end model. The best TVs go on sale as well, but deep discounts on those are less common. Roberto Machado Noa/Getty Images Second, massive discounts on TVs are rare in general. It might be counter-intuitive, but TVs typically don't have much mark-up. There isn't a lot of profit in a $1,000 TV. So unless the store is trying to clear out stock, you shouldn't expect a gigantic drop in price even during sales. Plenty of good discounts are available, they're just not going to be "50% off" or similar, unless there's a specific reason that model is getting such an extreme discount. Or it's a doorbuster in limited quantities. Third, most big companies don't allow stores to offer their own pricing. This is called UPP, or Unilateral Pricing Policy. It means that a TV from that company is going to cost the same, whether it's on Amazon, in Best Buy, or anywhere else. Well, anywhere else that wants to continue selling TVs from that company. Sarah Tew/CNET If this sounds sketchy, it is, but that's a topic for a different article. The result is there's usually no point in worrying if one store is going to have a sale. In most cases, either every store has a sale on that TV, or none do. Of course, that TV might go on sale (everywhere) next week. Some stores offer price protection in case this happens. Some credit cards do as well. Amazon, it's worth noting, does not offer price protection. Read more Mini-LED is here: How smaller lights could lead to big TV improvements Dolby Vision, HDR10, Technicolor and HLG: HDR formats explained MicroLED is the first new screen tech in a decade. Can it beat OLED? What about next year's TV tech? To put it succinctly, there's always something new around the corner. If this is your worry, it should give you peace of mind that even if something new hits the market next year, it's going to be very expensive. For example, MicroLED looks very promising, but you could buy a Porsche or two for the price of one MicroLED TV. It will be years before that's mainstream tech. Mini-LED, on the other hand, is shipping now in the TCL 8-series. It's a technology that promises close-to-OLED picture quality, for less money. It's likely we'll see more brands with Mini-LED in the future, but the TCL 8-series is worth checking out now. But it, too, is relatively expensive, starting at $2,000 for the 65-inch size. On the left, the image as you'd see it on a mini LED TV. On the right, an illustration of the mini LED array on the back of the TV. With that many LEDs, the backlight has a greater "resolution," so there can be finer distinctions between light and dark. The ideal, like OLED and micro LED, would be per-pixel illumination, but mini LED is a step closer to that without the cost of the other two technologies. Geoffrey Morrison/CNET Also on the horizon is ATSC 3.0, now called Next Gen TV. This is free over-the-air 4K TV, and while it's moving forward quite quickly, it's not worth waiting for a TV to have it built-in. Worst case you'll be able to buy a cheap external tuner and connect that to your TV. There's also HDMI 2.1. While 2.1 has several new technologies that are great, it's not going to make any current TVs obsolete (unless it's a current 8K TV, but that yet another story). As long as your current TV works with your current sources, you should be fine. Really old TVs, older than 10 years, might have issues connecting to modern streaming and disc sources, but there's no real workaround for that. If your TV doesn't work with a new Roku or Blu-ray player, then you might need to upgrade if you want to use one of those. So should you get a new TV? Here's the short version: Get a new TV now if: Your current TV is having issues, or is too old to connect to a streaming service like Netflix. You're willing to buy from a place that has a price-match policy, in case there's a sale. You want something bigger than what you have now. Don't get a TV now if: Your current TV works fine. There's literally anything else you need to spend money on. If you've got the itch for something new, so you're still on the fence, consider giving your TV a bit of a makeover. If you've never adjusted the settings, it's easy to do and will probably make your TV look better than it ever has. That might tide you over for a bit. And if you finally decide that, yes, you're ready to buy a new TV now, we at CNET do have some guidelines and suggested 2019 models. Got a question for Geoff? First, check out all the other articles he's written on topics like why you shouldn't buy expensive HDMI cables, TV resolutions explained, how HDR works and more. Still have a question? Tweet at him @TechWriterGeoff, then check out his travel photography on Instagram. He also thinks you should check out his best-selling sci-fi novel and its sequel. Comments Holiday Gift Guide 2019 Black Friday 2019 TVs 4K TVs Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Should you buy a new TV now, or wait? Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.