https://www.cnet.com/news/vista-has-landed-but-it-wont-take-off/
Vista has landed! But it won't take off - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Vista has landed! But it won't take off Vista Business launches today but will your boss be rolling it out across your office? Not likely, mate Rory Reid November 30, 2006 4:15 AM PST After what seems like aeons, Vista has finally gone on sale -- but only to business users. So does that mean you and your co-workers will be all Vista'd up in time for Christmas? Will the talk of the office party be how much Vista Business has increased productivity and morale, or will it simply be the usual form of getting drunk, groping your boss, then going home to bitch about how XP is a load of rubbish? Probably the latter -- there's very little chance your company, or ours for that matter, will adopt Vista any time soon. And for good reason; there's a lot to lose by rushing headlong into an OS that's completely unproven, that will require massive financial investment and comes from a software designer with several OS flops to its name. Windows ME, anyone? The total cost of switching to Vista is difficult enough for Joe Public to swallow, let alone a money-conscious MD, to whom a new Lamborghini is of far more importance than upgrading from Windows XP. Most of us will need a brand new PC costing somewhere in the region of £1,000 to be Vista-ready. Then there's the cost of the OS itself -- $399 (£205) for Vista Ultimate, or $299 (£154) for Vista Business. Then there's the software -- you're going to want new versions of Microsoft Office $499 (£255), not to mention new antivirus apps and new versions of programs that currently only run on Windows XP. That's around £1,500 per new Vista machine, which doesn't include the cost of making changes to your server infrastructure and support costs -- your MD's going to love that. Microsoft, naturally, says it's worth companies overhauling their IT infrastructure for Vista. It says, "For the IT professional, Windows Vista is easier to deploy, and less expensive to maintain, than any earlier version of Windows. And for your end users, Windows Vista's improved performance and reliability add value by allowing people to be more effective while performing their jobs." The first half of that argument is probably valid, but the second half -- that twaddle about how Vista's improved performance and reliability will make us more effective -- has to be nonsense. We've used Vista, and haven't seen much in it that'll help us send an email or open a Word document any quicker. Don't get us wrong -- we really like Vista. It's better than XP, possibly better than Apple OS X, and it has a wealth of funky new features. We just don't think you should get your hopes up about seeing it in your workplace any time soon -- not as long as your MD has his eye on that new set of wheels. -RR Comments Notification on Notification off Software Close Discuss: Vista has landed! But it won't take off Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.