https://www.cnet.com/news/best-nintendo-switch-games/
Best Nintendo Switch games - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best Nintendo Switch games If you've just bought a Nintendo Switch or a Nintendo Switch Lite, congrats! Here are some very good games you should buy. Mark Serrels January 12, 2020 6:56 PM PST Obviously. Nintendo The Nintendo Switch is good. It's really, really good. The newly released Nintendo Switch Lite is also good. If you've just picked up the most versatile console ever made you're probably working on step 2: What games should you buy? If that's the case, then you should head here. That list has 30 extremely good video games, featuring all kinds of gameplay. There are a ton of genres as well, with RPGs (role-playing game), fighting games, multiplayer, and indie games out the wazoo. Fine, we'll even list a few: Pokken Tournament DX, Xenoblade Chronicles 2, Splatoon 2, Luigi's Mansion 3, Octopath Traveler, Mario Tennis Aces, Tetris 99 -- they're all there. Even better, lots of those games are available for purchase on the Nintendo eShop, which means instant game gratification. But 30 games is a lot. That's why this post exists. We've whittled that list of 30 down to seven absolute stone-cold must own games on the Nintendo Switch. In fact, I'm just going to say it: These are the seven best Nintendo Switch games out there. So let's get cracking. Read more: Best Nintendo Switch accessories for 2019 1. Breath Of The Wild Nintendo Look, we love this game so much it recently topped our games of the decade list. Breath of the Wild is still the best video game of the Switch console, of its generation, and maybe the best game ever made (Don't @ us, Link's Awakening purists!). This action-adventure game redefines the open world genre by stripping it back to its core elements and building from scratch. Instead of rehashing the tropes of the genre, Breath of the Wild feels new in a way most open world games don't. Like it came from an alternate timeline, where gameplay in open worlds is less about quest lists and more about evoking a genuine sense of adventure. This game should be No. 1 on your list of the best Nintendo Switch games to buy. Read more. $60 at Walmart $60 at Best Buy $60 at Adorama Read more: Best gaming PCs for 2020 2. Mario Odyssey Nintendo You've got the Zelda game. Congrats. Step 2: buying the Mario game. Thankfully Mario Odyssey is good. It's not Breath of the Wild good. It doesn't reinvent itself in quite the same way, but it does exploit a very clever gimmick to bring the gameplay to its fullest potential. I'm talking, of course, about the hat. In Mario Odyssey, Mario throws his hat at an object and then possesses it. In Mario Odyssey you can possess almost everything in the game, from a taxi to a T. rex. It sounds clunky, but in practice it's a seamless and endlessly joyful process of experimentation and discovery. Mario Odyssey is no Super Mario Galaxy, but it's no Super Mario Sunshine either. It's an extremely good Mario game that should be part of any collection of the best Nintendo Switch games. Read our Super Mario Odyssey review. $55 at Walmart $60 at Best Buy $60 at Adorama Read more: Best gaming laptops for 2020 3. Hollow Knight Team Cherry Hollow Knight is always the third game I recommend for new Nintendo Switch owners. For a couple of reasons. Firstly, at $15 this action-adventure game represents incredible value for money. It'll probably take you around 20-plus hours to finish the single player quest. Secondly, Hollow Knight is sublime. Hollow Knight takes the best of Super Metroid and the best of Dark Souls and sort of smooshes them together to make something fresh and unique. But that's just part of its charm. Hollow Knight is dripping in atmosphere and glazed in a dark nostalgia. It's also perfectly designed. It's a strange wormhole of a universe that slowly builds upon itself. It's shockingly good and everyone should play it. $15 at Amazon Read more: Best gaming keyboards for 2020; Razer, Corsair, Logitech and more 4. Mario Kart 8 Deluxe Nintendo Look, Mario Kart 8 isn't technically a new game. The original Mario Kart 8 was released on the Nintendo Wii U, this Switch version is just an update of that game. But what an update. Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is absolutely the definitive Mario Kart game. It features all the tracks from the original game, including all the downloadable content. Same goes for the additional characters. The back of the box quote for Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is "biggest Mario Kart ever" is completely true. It is absolutely loaded with content. Best of all it's good content. Mario Kart 8 Deluxe has the benefit of borrowing everything that's worked in previous Mario Kart games, while shedding the stuff that didn't work. It's streamlined, well-balanced and tailor-made for players of all skill levels to battle each other on the race track. Read our Mario Kart 8 Deluxe review. $54 at Walmart $60 at Best Buy $59 at B&H Photo-Video Read more: Best TVs for gaming with low input lag 5. Into The Breach Gamespot Into The Breach, like Hollow Knight, is available on other platforms, but the Switch version is just the best way to play. It's not a visually intensive game. It wouldn't benefit from a slicker frame rate or more detailed textures, it simply is what it is and it's fantastic. A simple turn-based strategy game on the surface, Into The Breach's ruleset is such that it allows for endless innovation within the gameplay. It's different, it feels new, original. It's endlessly replayable and as the game ramps up the difficulty there's ample opportunity for players to adapt and think their way to victory. Many strategy games iterate on what has gone before. That's not Into The Breach. Into The Breach is the epitome of the "easy to learn, hard to master" mantra that makes games like these classic. Even if you don't like strategy games, you owe it to yourself to give this one a try. $15 at Amazon Read more: Best gaming chairs we've sat in for 2020: DXRacer, Secretlab and more 6. Dead Cells Motion Twin Count Dead Cells alongside Hollow Knight and Into The Breach as "indie games that make the most sense on Nintendo Switch." It's tough to explain what Dead Cells is without indulging in the worst type of video game jargon. So yes, Dead Cells is a platformer Roguelike Metroidvania set in a Dark Souls-esque universe, but it's also just a really interesting side-scrolling video game that's so rewarding to engage with on a second-by-second basis. And that's what really makes Dead Cells so special: It has the basic motion controls down pat, making it amazingly fun to play. When you swing a sword or launch an arrow in Dead Cells, it feels extremely good to swing a sword or fire an arrow. Everything feels good in Dead Cells. There's a commitment to small details that rewards the player for every action they take. It's a fantastic game that works great in small bursts, which makes it perfect for a portable console like the Nintendo Switch. $25 at Amazon 7. Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Nintendo Look, I thought about putting one of the many great indie games available for Switch in this position. A game like Celeste or Oxenfree or Baba Is You. These are all very good and interesting video games, but the reality is the people want the Switch version of Smash. They love Smash. Because, friends, sometimes you have to Smash. Much like Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, Super Smash Bros. Ultimate sets the gold standard as a fighting game. It's a battle royale, every single time, fought by characters you know and love. And if you're playing this game at home, with friends, in the same space, it's almost certainly the best version of the game ever created. Issues only really arise if you're using the online multiplayer mode -- but that's par for the course with Nintendo. This is a party game. A competitive party game, but a party game nonetheless. It's a game to be played in the same space as other human beings, much like Mario Party. And if you're playing Smash under those circumstances, it's practically peerless. $50 at Amazon Now playing: Watch this: Nintendo Switch Lite: 1 month later 5:06 The 34 best games on the Nintendo Switch 35 Photos Originally published earlier this year. Comments Culture Gaming Notification on Notification off Nintendo Close Discuss: Best Nintendo Switch games Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.