https://www.cnet.com/news/verizon-wireless-to-buy-alltel/
Verizon Wireless to buy Alltel - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Verizon Wireless to buy Alltel Verizon Wireless announced Thursday it intends to acquire Alltel in a deal worth $28.1 billion, creating the largest cell phone company in the country. Marguerite Reardon June 5, 2008 8:27 AM PDT The third time must have been the charm for Verizon Wireless and regional cell phone operator Alltel. Verizon Wireless supposedly has looked at buying Alltel twice in the past three years. And on Thursday it finally pulled the trigger, announcing that it plans to buy Alltel in a deal valued at $28.1 billion. As part of the deal Verizon will pay $5.9 billion and assume $22.2 billion in debt. The acquisition will make Verizon Wireless the largest cell phone company in the U.S., stripping AT&T of that title. The Verizon Wireless version of LG's voyager phone. Verizon Wireless Verizon Wireless expects to close the deal by the end of the year, pending regulatory approvals. Alltel was sold only last year for $27.5 billion to the buyout arm of Goldman Sachs and private equity firm TPG Capital. And, according to The Wall Street Journal, the banks that financed the deal, including Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, Barclays, and Royal Bank of Scotland Group, still owe about $24 billion in loans and bond financing. Alltel's sale to Verizon will eliminate this hefty debt burden, which has become more acute since the credit crunch started this year. A takeover of Alltel by Verizon Wireless will create the largest cell phone operator in the country by adding Alltel's 13.2 million customers bringing the total to some 80 million subscribers. AT&T, which is currently the nation's largest cell phone provider, reported at the end of last quarter that it has 71.4 million customers. Verizon Wireless, jointly owned by Verizon Communications and U.K.-based Vodafone Group, would gain customers mainly in the Midwest and South where Alltel operates. The merger will likely be carefully scrutinized by regulators in the Department of Justice and the Federal Communications Commission. And it's likely that Verizon will be asked to divest some of its assets in markets where the companies overlap. Verizon Wireless was among the companies that considered buying Alltel last year when the company first started shopping itself around. And rumors had circulated back in 2005 that Verizon was interested in purchasing the regional cell phone operator. Both times the company didn't make its move. In the first quarter of 2008, Alltel reported an 18 percent increase in earnings. Both Alltel and Verizon Wireless seem to be benefitting from troubles at Sprint Nextel, which has been bleeding customers since its 2005 acquisition of Nextel. As Sprint Nextel loses customers, Alltel and Verizon have been adding customers, which is has helped grow their bottom lines. And the deal makes sense for Verizon Wireless. The two companies both use the CDMA (code division multiple access) cellular technology, so integrating the networks should not be a huge obstacle. The companies also share a similar technology road map. Earlier this year, Alltel said it would use a next-generation wireless technology called LTE to build its 4G network, the same technology Verizon has said it will use to build its 4G network. What's more Verizon Wireless is in a good financial position to make such a purchase. Even though the company has just laid out $9 billion for new spectrum in the FCC's recent 700 MHz spectrum auction, it isn't carrying a heavy load of debt relative to its earnings. So the deal makes good sense for Verizon. But the bigger question now is, who will be next? Acquisitions often occur in multiples. And given the current state of the economy, it's likely that more phone companies will merge in order to gain efficiencies and ultimately reduce costs. Rumors have floated around that German-based Deutsche Telekom has been eying the struggling Sprint Nextel. I think this is a highly unlikely scenario since Deutsche Telekom's T-Mobile USA uses a different technology standard GSM. But perhaps there will be more consolidation among the smaller regional carriers. AT&T and T-Mobile USA could start gobbling up these smaller players, many of which use their GSM technology. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Verizon Wireless to buy Alltel Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.