https://www.cnet.com/news/dell-founder-unaware-of-companys-financial-shenanigans/
Dell founder 'unaware' of company's financial shenanigans - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Dell founder 'unaware' of company's financial shenanigans Michael Dell briefly addresses accounting scandal, also answers questions about the company's strategy in retail and consumer PC markets. Erica Ogg September 5, 2007 5:48 PM PDT For the first time since Dell admitted that some of its accountants had been cooking the books to meet quarterly numbers, company founder Michael Dell spoke publicly about the scandal. At the Citigroup Technology Conference in New York City on Wednesday, Dell said he had no part in the fudged numbers and no idea what the accounting department was up to between 2003 and 2006. "I was not involved in or aware of any of the accounting irregularities. And certainly I'm not proud of what occurred at our company, but I'm proud of the company overall," he said. That's despite the company's acknowledgment that senior executives knew about the financial misdeeds and even encouraged them. But he said he has assumed responsibility for making sure it doesn't happen again. "I think our company has undertaken a set of extraordinary processes to discover and root this out of our company, whether it's people, resources, systems. What you have now at Dell is really a new team that is addressing all the issues raised in the investigation and moving on and thinking about the future growth of the company," he continued. In reality, they can't move on quite yet because though Dell's internal audit may be over, the SEC's investigation into the matter is still ongoing. Next up were Dell's recent woes in the consumer PC market. He said consumer sales accounted for 15 percent of Dell's revenue, which makes the company's presence in consumer markets "massively underrepresented," he said. He said they're completely rethinking how to approach the consumer market, and pointed to products like the new (and very backlogged) XPS M1330 notebook. He hinted that we'd see "several other products" that fall into that category soon. Speaking of backlogged product, he also addressed the delays plaguing new XPS and Inspiron notebooks, but curiously there was no mention of paint-related problems. Turns out the company just didn't plan properly, and when Dell projected demand for their new notebooks six months ago, they miscalculated. "I don't like it, and it's frustrating, but it's a problem we know how to solve," he said. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Dell founder 'unaware' of company's financial shenanigans Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.