https://www.cnet.com/news/senators-demand-equifax-answer-questions-about-massive-hack/
Senators demand Equifax answer questions about massive hack - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Senators demand Equifax answer questions about massive hack Leaders of Senate Finance Committee want to know what executives knew about the security breach and when. Steven Musil September 11, 2017 3:55 PM PDT Senators want to know when Equifax knew about its massive data breach exposing personal information for as many as 143 million people in the US, including names, Social Security numbers, birth dates and addresses of customers. Getty Images A pair of influential US senators sent a letter to Equifax CEO Rick Smith on Monday demanding answers to detailed questions about the massive hack that exposed sensitive financial information for as many as 143 million Americans. Sen. Orrin Hatch, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and ranking committee member Sen. Ron Wyden are seeking details such as the timeline for the security breach and when the company became aware of it. They also asked for information about when authorities and board members were informed of the hack, including three executives who sold shares in the days after the hack was discovered. Equifax didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. Related coverage Find out if you were one of 143 million hacked A guide to surviving the Equifax data breach Equifax's hack checker is a hot mess -- here's what to do The prominent credit-reporting firm revealed Thursday that hackers made off with a treasure trove of financial data from as many as 143 million people in the US, including names, Social Security numbers, birth dates and addresses of customers. Equifax learned about the breach on July 29 but didn't reveal it for more than a month. The senators' letter comes as other lawmakers expressed similar concerns. Sen. Mark Warner (D-Virginia), the vice chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee, called Equifax's revelation "profoundly troubling" and suggested it was time for Congress to weigh in on stronger data protection standards for consumers. The senators specifically want to know details of nearly $1.8 million in stock sales made by Equifax executives, including the company's chief financial officer, three days after the breach was discovered and several weeks before it was made public. Equifax has denied the executives sold their shares based on insider information, which would be a violation of Securities and Exchange Commission rules. The letter asks Smith to respond by September 28. Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot. It's Complicated: This is dating in the age of apps. Having fun yet? These stories get to the heart of the matter. Comments Security Equifax Notification on Notification off Hacking Close Discuss: Senators demand Equifax answer questions about massive hack Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.