https://www.cnet.com/news/yahoo-hack-1-billion-users-affected-2013-record/
Yahoo sets hack record at 1 billion accounts - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Yahoo sets hack record at 1 billion accounts A new breach revealed by the troubled internet pioneer compromises twice as many user accounts as the record hack it disclosed in September. Laura Hautala, Richard Nieva December 14, 2016 2:41 PM PST Leer en español Now playing: Watch this: Yahoo hit by biggest hack ever (again), 1 billion accounts... 1:17 It seems Yahoo has outdone itself. The company said Wednesday that it was hit by yet another hacking attack, this time affecting more than 1 billion user accounts. That's double the number affected by a hack revealed in September. The hack occurred in August 2013. Stolen data included users' names, email addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, and encrypted passwords. Those passwords are scrambled up with an encryption tool called MD5, which experts say is possible to crack with some patience. The data also included some security questions and answers, some of which weren't encrypted. Marissa Mayer joined Yahoo in 2012 as its CEO. Stephen Lam, Getty Images "Yahoo is notifying potentially affected users and has taken steps to secure their accounts, including requiring users to change their passwords," the company said in a statement. "Yahoo has also invalidated unencrypted security questions and answers so that they cannot be used to access an account." Among the victims are more than 150,000 US government and military employees, presenting a threat to national security, according to a Bloomberg report. The accounts belong to current and former White House staff, congressmen and their aides, FBI agents, officials at the National Security Agency, the Central Intelligence Agency, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, and each branch of the US military. The breach is another black eye for Chief Executive Marissa Mayer, who joined Yahoo in 2012 amid great fanfare. The former Google executive was charged with turning Yahoo around and tried to bring the lumbering company into the smartphone era. She made big bets on mobile, refreshing all of the company's mobile apps, but Yahoo hasn't been able to make much money off her projects. The announcement caps off a rough few months for the troubled tech giant and leaves another blemish on a company seeking to sell itself to Verizon. When Yahoo announced a separate data breach in September, in which hackers in 2014 swiped user information from half a billion accounts, it was said to be the biggest cybersecurity breach ever. Two weeks later, the company again came under fire after a report said Yahoo built tools to surveil customers' emails for US intelligence officials. All the while, Yahoo has been awaiting its fate with Verizon, which agreed to buy the company for $4.8 billion in July. The deal is set to close in the first quarter of next year, but Yahoo's disclosure of the previous hack had given Verizon executives pause about the deal. "We are confident in Yahoo's value and we continue to work toward integration with Verizon," a Yahoo spokeswoman said Wednesday. Verizon issued a statement that didn't say whether the news of the hack would have an impact on the acquisition. "As we've said all along, we will evaluate the situation as Yahoo continues its investigation," Verizon's statement read. "We will review the impact of this new development before reaching any final conclusions." Sumit Argawal, co-founder and vice president of product at cybersecurity company Shape Security, said the increasingly damaging hacks that Yahoo has announced fit a clear pattern in companies that don't have their security locked down. Often, he said, companies and organizations start by describing their cybersecurity woes in small terms but keep adding new casualties to the list. "When entities have mediocre security hygiene, they inevitably end up having lost the keys to a much larger kingdom than we originally thought," Argawal said. The personal information hackers stole could be used in combination with other hacked data, he added. If a criminal already has a credit card number, he might be able to use the stolen Yahoo data to find the answers to security questions that go along with it, for example. Yahoo also said in its statement that hackers stole the software it uses to create cookies, the browser tools that can let someone enter an account without a password. Yahoo said it believes that hacking may be related to the same state-sponsored hacking group it suspects is responsible for the 2014 hack. Dmitri Sirota, CEO of data protection company BigID, said high profile individuals with Yahoo accounts might have been the real target of the hack. "The reality is within that billion users, there's probably a couple politicians, a few celebrities, a few people in key industries," Sirota said. Updated 10:32 a.m. PT to clarify that Yahoo doesn't know who stole its data in the 2013 breach of 1 billion user records. Comments Security Hacking Notification on Notification off Yahoo! Close Discuss: Yahoo sets hack record at 1 billion accounts Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.