https://www.cnet.com/news/outbreak-of-mysterious-illness-in-china-traced-to-never-before-seen-virus/
Outbreak of mysterious illness in China traced to never-before-seen virus - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Outbreak of mysterious illness in China traced to never-before-seen virus Dozens of people are suffering from a pneumonia outbreak now attributed to a virus related to deadly SARS. Amanda Kooser January 9, 2020 7:55 PM PST A coronavirus was recognized as being behind the 2003 SARS outbreak. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Sudden acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) is a frightening specter. The contagious, deadly virus raged in China in 2003. In recent weeks, a mysterious new respiratory illness has appeared in Wuhan CIty in Hubei Province, sickening 44 people as of early January. We now know a little more about the virus behind it and how it relates to SARS. On Thursday, the World Health Organization issued a statement saying Chinese authorities have made a preliminary determination that the cryptic sickness is not SARS, but it is caused by a new coronavirus. Coronaviruses can range in severity from the common cold to more deadly strains like SARS and Middle East respiratory syndrome. Chinese investigators made the discovery after gene-sequencing a sample of the virus collected from a patient. The virus has caused severe symptoms in some, but does not seem to be highly contagious. Understanding health Most of the cases are tied to a specific seafood market, with dealers and vendors among the patients. "The reported link to a wholesale fish and live animal market could indicate an exposure link to animals," the WHO said in preliminary statement on Jan. 5. Investigators are still tracking down the source of the illness. "Preliminary identification of a novel virus in a short period of time is a notable achievement and demonstrates China's increased capacity to manage new outbreaks," said the WHO. The agency will continue to monitor the situation. Now playing: Watch this: Unlocking the secrets of microgravity: What a doctor... 7:17 The best health tech at CES 2020 10 Photos Now playing: Watch this: This pill expands to over 100x its own size 3:01 Originally published Jan. 9, 12:24 p.m. PT. Comments Notification on Notification off Sci-Tech Close Discuss: Outbreak of mysterious illness in China traced to never-before-seen virus Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.