https://www.cnet.com/news/atis-new-3d-cards-intensify-the-midrange-fight/
ATI's new 3D cards intensify the midrange fight - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In ATI's new 3D cards intensify the midrange fight New ATI midrange 3D cards. Rich Brown November 15, 2007 4:24 PM PST Both ATI's and Nvidia's first round of $125 to $200 DirectX 10-cards delivered underwhelming performance at best. They couldn't handle games from last year, let alone crank through newer titles like Crysis and PC Gears of War. But with Nvidia's GeForce 8800 GT and ATI's new Radeon HD 3850 and 3870 cards (announced today) mainstream gamers can finally get a piece of that modern game action for less than the price of a full-fledged game console. The new ATI Radeon HD 3850 finally delivers presentable, current 3D gaming for less than $200 AMD The new ATI cards are unique in that they offer support for a few new hardware and software features. They're both PCI Express 2.0 compatible, which means a fatter graphics data pipe when they're paired with a motherboard that has a PCI Express 2.0 slot, due from ATI shortly. That kind of throughput isn't quite necessary yet, because no games are really pumping that much data through, but it's nice to have the hardware support in place for when they might. Another benefit of the newer motherboards will be CrossFireX, a new iteration of ATI's multicard technology that lets you match up to four different cards in one system. Similar to PCI Express 2.0, though perhaps less important, the new Radeons are also DirectX 10.1-compliant. That update to the still-emerging DirectX standard might eventually allow for a few additional graphical bells and whistles. But no developer in his right mind will require you to have DirectX 10.1 hardware, especially when DirectX 10 is still in the early adoption phase. DX10.1 compatibility is more valuable today as a marketing bullet point than an actual feature. For performance, the $179 256MB Radeon 3850 overtakes against Nvidia's 8600 GT, and the $219 512MB Radeon 3870 effectively replaces ATI's older Radeon HD 2900 XT, which is basically as fast, but it costs $399. According to GameSpot's tests and others from around the Web, neither card is as fast as the newer GeForce 8800 GT from Nvidia, but the lowest price we've seen on that card is $270, making the Radeons into major bang-for-the-buck players. We would still expect all of the sub-$400 or so cards to choke on newer games in DirectX 10-mode and with the details cranked, but the good news is that DirectX 10 hasn't distanced itself enough from DirectX 9 yet to make that much of a difference in image quality. So with these new ATI cards, you can dial down the settings, still have your game look great, and enjoy smooth frame rates on most, if not all current titles and not break the bank to do it. We'll have a full review of the 3850 up shortly, so stay tuned. Comments Crave Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: ATI's new 3D cards intensify the midrange fight Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.