https://www.cnet.com/news/nintendo-switch-getting-new-pokemon-sword-and-shield-expansions-in-2020/
Nintendo Switch getting new Pokemon Sword and Shield expansions in 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Nintendo Switch getting new Pokemon Sword and Shield expansions in 2020 Plenty of new games, including Borderlands and BioShock, are coming to the Switch this year. Eli Blumenthal March 26, 2020 8:28 AM PDT Nintendo Switch fans will have plenty to play in 2020. Óscar Gutiérrez/CNET Nintendo Switch fans have plenty to look forward to in 2020. After Microsoft and Sony detailed their respective next-gen consoles -- the Xbox Series X and PlayStation 5 -- earlier this month, Nintendo on Thursday unveiled a host of new games and updates coming to its current system in 2020. Among the highlights: big new expansions to Pokemon Sword and Shield, new fighters in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate and the arrival of several classic franchises on the Switch, including Borderlands, XCOM and BioShock. Coming days after the release of one of Nintendo's most anticipated games of the year, Animal Crossing: New Horizons, the news was announced during a nearly 29-minute Nintendo Direct Mini video posted on YouTube. Details on the games vary. The first of the Pokemon expansions called The Isle of Armor will launch by the "end of June" for $30, with a press release accompanying the Direct stating that a second expansion called The Crown Tundra set to be "revealed in the future." As part of the first expansion "trainers can gather at a new dojo for Pokemon Battles to master their skills" as well as acquire "legendary Pokemon Kubfu from the master, Mustard." The 2K Games including XCOM 2, Borderlands Legendary Collection (which includes the original Borderlands, Borderlands 2 and Borderlands: The Pre-Sequel) and the BioShock games will arrive on May 29. The new Super Smash Bros. character, however, was simply teased to be coming from robot fighter Arms as part of the game's Fighters Pass Vol. 2, with Nintendo not providing details on exactly who the mysterious new fighter will be. That detail, and the release of the fighter, will arrive in June. As for Animal Crossing, fans of the game will be able to take part in a new Bunny Day egg hunt in April. Read more: How to bring the Animal Crossing island life to your own home The 34 best games on the Nintendo Switch 35 Photos Comments Gaming Notification on Notification off Nintendo Close Discuss: Nintendo Switch getting new Pokemon Sword and Shield expansions in 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.