https://www.cnet.com/news/apple-design-awards-go-to-lara-croft-go-medical-anatomy-app/
Apple Design Awards go to Lara Croft Go and an anatomy app - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Apple Design Awards go to Lara Croft Go and an anatomy app At WWDC, Apple has announced its Design Awards, going to 12 apps that it believes represent the best the iTunes store has to offer. Michelle Starr June 13, 2016 11:10 PM PDT Enlarge Image Square Enix Another round of apps and games has been honoured at WWDC with the annual Design Awards, scooping up trophies for the best design and ingenuity present in Apple's app store. It's the 19th year the awards have been up for grabs, and the light-up cube trophy has gone to some quiet achievers. Medical education app Complete Anatomy was awarded for its excellent performance and attention to detail, while writing app Ulysses got a prize for its seamless ui and ability to smoothly switch between devices. Games this year that got the prize all fit the slick and simple mould that Apple seems to value highly. They included Tomb Raider-themed puzzle game Lara Croft Go and one-touch colour-based runner Chameleon Run. The student winners this year were Joaquin Vila with minimalist puzzle game Linum, and Josh Deichmann, Patrick Pistor and Erik Lydick with 2D arcade game Dividr. You can find the full list of winners after the jump below, with links to their iTunes App Store pages, and you can find the rest of our WWDC coverage here. Here are the coolest new features of iOS 10 (pictures) 16 Photos Complete Anatomy (Free) 3D4Medical iPad Complete Anatomy is a tool for teaching the anatomy of the human body, and includes interactive 3D models, animations and lectures. Streaks ($3.99 | AU$5.99 | £2.99) Zervass Enterprises iPhone, iPod Touch, Apple Watch This simple to-do list allows you to track up to six tasks every day in order to build up a streak of healthy habits. Zova -- Personal Trainer (Free) Zova iPhone, iPod Touch, Apple Watch A personal fitness app with a range of workouts to suit every level, allowing you to set your own goals with tutorials from expert trainers. Frame.io (Free) Frame.io iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch Frame.io is compatible with Final Cut Pro and includes a range of features that simplifies and streamlines the process of video collaboration. Ulysses ($44.99 | AU$69.99 | £34.99) The Soulmen Mac OSX This software is for the writer, whether it's novels, theses, blogging or fanfic, and comes with a suite of tools that is aimed at making your writing easier. Chameleon Run ($1.99 | AU$2.99 | £1.49) Noodlecake Studios iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch A beautifully designed twist on the autorunner, Chameleon Run sees you needing to change colours to match the platforms you're jumping on. Lara Croft Go ($4.99 | $7.99 | £3.99) Square Enix iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch Lara Croft Go sees you navigating puzzles to reach the treasure, carefully conserving your moves to deal with hazards on the gameboard in an incredibly cleverly designed experience. Inks ($1.99 | AU$2.99 | £1.49) State of Play Games iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch From the developer behind lovingly handcrafted game Lumino City comes Inks, a pinball game that sees you carefully aiming your ball to splash the board with coloured inks. Auxy Music Creation (Free) Auxy iPad With simple-to-use Auxy, anyone can muck around with their iPad to create music. djay Pro ($19.99 | AU$30.99 | £14.99) algoriddim iPad This is the second Apple Design Award for DJ toolkit djay Pro, which puts a virtual deck at your fingertips. Linum (Free) Joaquin Vila iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch By moving lines between nodes, you have to use as few moves as possible to reach the goal in this minimalist puzzler. Dividr (Free) Josh Deichmann, Patrick Pistor and Erik Lydick iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch Simple puzzle game Dividr sees you controlling the size of blocks on the screen to avoid obstacles. Comments Mobile Apps Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Apple Design Awards go to Lara Croft Go and an anatomy app Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.