https://www.cnet.com/news/disney-to-leave-netflix-to-start-its-own-streaming-service/
Disney to leave Netflix to start its own streaming service - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Disney to leave Netflix to start its own streaming service Starting in 2019, films from Walt Disney Studios and Pixar will no longer be found on the popular streaming service. Mike Sorrentino August 8, 2017 2:05 PM PDT Now playing: Watch this: Disney cuts the cord with Netflix 1:43 "Moana" and other Disney films currently streaming on Netflix won't be there after 2018, according to the Walt Disney Company. Disney announced Tuesday that it will launch its own subscription service in 2019 that will become the new home to films from Walt Disney Studios, Pixar and others under its umbrella. Those 2019 films will include "Toy Story 4," the sequel to "Frozen" and the live-action remake of "The Lion King." Disney CEO Bob Iger told CNBC that while Disney has a "good relationship" with Netflix, his company is going to exercise an option in its agreement to leave the service. The films will stay on Netflix until the end of 2018. Marvel TV shows, such as "Daredevil" and "The Defenders," will stay on the service permanently, according to CNBC. Disney also hasn't decided whether to include films from Lucasfilm, which makes "Star Wars," and Marvel in its new subscription service, The New York Times reported. "It's possible we will continue to license them to a pay service like Netflix, but it's premature to say," Iger told the Times. "There has been talk about launching a proprietary Marvel service and 'Star Wars' service." However, Iger added that Disney was cautious about creating stand-alone services for those franchises, according to the Times. The move is a big shift for Disney, which first announced its agreement with Netflix in 2012 to make Netflix the exclusive online home for its films starting in 2016. Those movies began to pop up on Netflix in September 2016. Netflix didn't respond to a request for comment. Now playing: Watch this: The best moment from every Marvel Cinematic Universe... 4:23 Coming much sooner than the movie service will be an ESPN-branded video-streaming service launching in early 2018, also announced by Disney on Tuesday. That service is said to feature 10,000 games and events per year, including those from Major League Baseball, Major League Soccer and college sports. The service will also allow for the purchase of individual sport packages from MLB.TV, NHL.TV and MLS Live. Both services were revealed as part of Disney's announcement that it's acquiring majority ownership of BAMTech, LLC, a streaming video and internet services company from Major League Baseball's internet company, MLBAM. "This acquisition and the launch of our direct-to-consumer services mark an entirely new growth strategy for the company," Iger said in the announcement. First published Aug. 8, 2:07 p.m. PT. Update, 2:30 p.m. PT: Adds additional information on Disney's acquisition of BAMTech, LLC, more details on Marvel content staying or leaving Netflix, and the ESPN-branded video-streaming service. Update, Aug. 9 at 12:02 p.m. PT: Adds more information on Marvel and Lucasfilm content. Ranking the Marvel Cinematic Universe movies 19 Photos Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech. How to watch every Marvel property in the perfect order: We've laid out every Marvel movie and TV show -- and the absolute ideal order for watching them -- so you can check out the latest Marvel properties super-prepared. Comments Digital Media Marvel Disney Star Wars Pixar Notification on Notification off Netflix.com inc. Close Discuss: Disney to leave Netflix to start its own streaming service Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.