https://www.cnet.com/news/spacex-block-5-falcon-9-rocket-hopes-to-reuse-100-times/
Elon Musk, SpaceX to launch a rocket that can be used 100 times - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Elon Musk's next SpaceX rocket could blast off 100 times The CEO envisions colonizing Mars atop reusable rockets. So far he's never used the same Falcon 9 booster more than twice, but that's about to change. Eric Mack April 3, 2018 1:36 PM PDT Leer en español A current model Falcon 9 launches. SpaceX Believe it or not, all the SpaceX rockets you've seen making those impressive landings the past few years are something like the beta version of the Falcon 9 rocket. We may get to see the final version at work later this month, when the real revolution in space flight will begin. Over the past week, SpaceX launched two more successful Falcon 9 missions, but there were no high-drama landings of the rocket boosters on a droneship at sea or a landing pad along the coast. Instead, both of the previously used rockets flew back to the surface of the ocean and promptly sunk themselves permanently. So what happened to Elon Musk's grand idea of recycling rockets to drive down the cost of accessing space? Why is his company suddenly dumping all its rockets in the ocean like NASA and everyone else has done for decades? Don't worry. This is all leading up to the final version of the rocket, the so-called "Block 5" Falcon 9 that's set to make its debut flight later this month. The company confirmed to me Tuesday that it hopes to launch Bangladesh's first communications satellite, Bangabandhu-1, on a Block 5 Falcon 9 later in April. The exact launch window is yet to be announced, though some industry sites are reporting April 24 as a target date. Now playing: Watch this: SpaceX's next rocket could be reused 100 times 1:31 Ladies and gentlemen, the first Block 5 #Falcon9 at McGregor, Texas, for acceptance test firing! Article by the talented @IanPineapple. #SpaceXhttps://t.co/uTqNpDT1HD pic.twitter.com/AO4jTHEekm — Chris G - NSF (@ChrisG_NSF) February 27, 2018 The Falcon 9 rockets that have flown more than one mission so far are all either Block 4, or so-called "Full Thrust" models. The Block 5 model is what Musk has said he considers to be the finished version of the Falcon 9. It's a little more powerful than its predecessors with some other upgrades that should help for better control on descent and other minor tweaks. But the big difference is that this is the Falcon 9 model SpaceX hopes to fly over and over again. And again, and again. The plan is for Block 5 Falcon 9's to be able to launch 10 times without needing any significant refurbishment -- just recover it, inspect it and send it back out to the launch pad. After 10 flights, the rocket is refurbished and readied for another 10 flights, up to a total lifespan of 100 flights per rocket. That's the kind of use Musk and SpaceX need to get out of their rockets to make some of Musk's audacious plans, like a huge human colony on Mars, within the realm of possibility. Humans on Mars: An atlas of plans to land on the Red Planet 32 Photos SpaceX has reused a previously flown Falcon 9 rocket 10 times in the past year. SpaceX's Jessica Jensen told reporters at a NASA press conference Sunday the company plans to increase that figure by 50 percent over the next year, thanks in part to the addition of some Block 5 rockets to its fleet. The Falcon 9 rockets we've seen in the past few years are really only designed for about two or three flights, tops, and with the possibility of needing to be refurbished between each launch. Rather than try to recover some of its current inventory of older Falcon 9 boosters, SpaceX has opted instead to push them to their limits during reentry to gather data that will be useful for building future rockets. That's what was done with the last two Falcon 9 boosters that met their end in the ocean over the last few days. The final version of the Falcon 9 we'll see later this month is also the rocket SpaceX hopes to use to carry astronauts to the International Space Station later this year. But first, it needs to get at least seven Block 5 launches under its belt to get certified by NASA. If all goes well, the age of recycled rockets, more frequent launches and greater access to the heavens will finally be truly underway. Crowd Control: A crowdsourced science fiction novel written by CNET readers. Solving for XX: The tech industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech." Comments Sci-Tech Elon Musk Space Notification on Notification off SpaceX Close Discuss: Elon Musk's next SpaceX rocket could blast off 100 times Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.