https://www.cnet.com/news/psa-equifaxs-hack-checker-is-a-hot-mess/
Equifax's hack checker is a hot mess -- here's what to do - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Equifax's hack checker is a hot mess -- here's what to do Equifax's hack checker needs to be checked. Sharon Profis September 9, 2017 8:56 AM PDT Sharon Profis/CNET From the time Equifax discovered its database was breached to the day it publicly announced the hack, six weeks passed. The company was likely preparing for one of the worst data breaches in American history, including the creation of a tool that lets anyone find out if they were affected by the hack. That tool, however, might need a check of its own. The way it works is: You enter your last name and the last six digits of your social security number. Then, Equifax gives you one of two results: Equifax will let you know that you may have been impacted. Equifax will let you know you were not impacted. Something is not quite right with the results, though, as ZDNET's Zack Whittaker discovered. The tool provides random results, even for fictional names and social security numbers. I tested this myself with the last name "Hellomoto" and a random string of digits. Turns out that the person with the last name Hellomoto was not impacted. Another Twitter user tried a random combination, which returned results of a possible impact. Is Equifax's tool completely useless? The random results suggest that it can't be fully trusted, as it doesn't return errors for bogus entries and, in some cases, confirms that made-up people were affected. Equifax has already revised its tool once to provide more clear results (it previously didn't explicitly tell users they were impacted) but could be further improved -- or fixed. At this point, we suggest that any person with a credit history take action as if they were affected. That means watching out for signs of identity theft and taking further precautions, such as freezing your credit and setting fraud alerts. Here's our complete guide to how to handle the situation. We have reached out to Equifax for comment and have not yet heard back. Editor's note, Sept. 9: Revised to reflect that Equifax made changes to its tool, but didn't address the bogus entry issue. Further clarified what happens when bogus entries are used in the tool. Comments Security Equifax Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: Equifax's hack checker is a hot mess -- here's what to do Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.