https://www.cnet.com/news/on-call-a-bridge-for-t-mobile-and-sprint/
On Call: A bridge for T-Mobile and Sprint - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In On Call: A bridge for T-Mobile and Sprint Sprint is reportedly in talks with T-Mobile's parent company to buy the carrier. Though the idea of the two brands meshing still makes us queasy, it could work as they move to 4G. Kent German March 8, 2011 1:40 PM PST On Call runs every two weeks, alternating between answering reader questions and discussing hot topics in the cell phone world. Bloomberg today revived a long-simmering story in the wireless world when it reported that Deutsche Telekom is considering selling its T-Mobile USA subsidiary to Sprint Nextel. A deal is nowhere near definite, sources told Bloomberg, but the two companies are debating a valuation for the country's fourth-largest carrier. More merger mania Mergers between wireless carriers do happen--remember that Sprint and Nextel got hitched almost six years ago--and the possibility of a T-Mobile/Sprint marriage has been bounced around since 2009. The rumor received a lot of fuel last summer after Sprint CEO Dan Hesse said he sees "logic" in consolidation. Hesse didn't elaborate much on his point, but that was all many analysts needed to begin comparing balance sheets. At the time, I wrote a column on why I saw a merger as unlikely. Disparate technology was one reason, and I didn't savor the idea of meshing T-Mobile's relatively strong corporate identity with Sprint's, well, not-so-great image. I still stand by my second point, but I've come around a bit on the technology side. Though many tech journalists, myself included, rightly point to Sprint's struggles to mesh Nextel's iDEN network with its CDMA technology, it's a different world than it was in 2005. As carriers move exclusively to bridging 4G technologies over the next few years, terms like CDMA and GSM won't matter as much. So in the long term, a T-Mobile/Sprint merger could make sense. So how would it work? In short, it could all come down to LTE. Sprint is firmly on board with WiMax at the moment and it will presumably continue that way for the near future. In a few years, however, the carrier should move to LTE as Hesse has indicated. T-Mobile, on the other hand, still is riding the HSPA+ train. True, it's not a real 4G technology--despite T-Mobile describing it as such--but HSPA+ is offering data speeds that can match its rivals at least for the time being. Yet, at some point T-Mobile will need to move on to LTE as well. And if Sprint is walking the same path, then things could work. Sure, I'm simplifying things a bit and making predictions that may not turn out to be true, but the point is that integrating the carriers' CDMA and GSM networks doesn't have to happen. A real 4G technology like LTE Advanced can act as a bridge. I think Sprint has learned a lot from the Nextel integration--and it finally appears to be getting the mess in order--though those lessons may be irrelevant. I'm still not excited by the prospect of blending the two brands, but mergers deemed good for a company usually move forward, whether they're good for customers or not. Updated March 9 at 10:55 p.m. PT: While speaking at the Deutsche Bank AG Media & Telecom Conference on Wednesday, Sprint CEO Dan Hesse said "every option" for the carrier's future include Clearwire and WiMax. Bloomberg also said that Hesse refused to comment on a possible merger with T-Mobile. Comments 4G LTE Sprint T-Mobile Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: On Call: A bridge for T-Mobile and Sprint Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.