https://www.cnet.com/news/best-travel-coffee-mugs-for-2020/
Best travel coffee mugs for 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best travel coffee mugs for 2020 Be kinder to your budget -- and to the environment -- with these reusable coffee cups. Chowhound Staff February 22, 2020 8:41 PM PST Best insulated travel coffee mug Yeti Rambler tumbler Jump to details $30 at Amazon Best designed travel coffee mug Kinto travel tumbler Jump to details $28 at Amazon Best leak-proof travel coffee mug Contigo West Loop stainless steel travel mug Jump to details $13 at Amazon Best lid-free travel coffee mug S'well tumbler Jump to details $23 at Amazon Best collapsible travel coffee mug Stojo silicone collapsible cup Jump to details $20 at Amazon Best glass travel coffee mug KeepCup reusable coffee cup Jump to details $26 at Amazon Show more (1 items) We'd never dare ask you to skip out on your morning caffeine ritual, but surely there's a more environmentally conscious way for coffee drinkers to partake without sacrificing any of the function or pleasure. Recycling is great, but bringing a trusty reusable coffee mug made of glass, stainless steel or other eco-friendly cups to your favorite java shop or making your own brew at home and toting it in a chic coffee tumbler is an even smarter way to avoid the single-use plastic and disposable cups piling up in landfills. Bonus: Many coffee shop locations give you a discount for bringing your own coffee mugs. Chances are you've already made the switch to a reusable water bottle, so it's not too much of a stretch to update the vessel for your morning cup of coffee. We've selected some of the best travel coffee mug options to help you find the very best in reusable coffee mugs and cups that stay insulated and keep your drink hot. Whether you're looking for reusable coffee mugs and cups that fit into car cup holders or an accessory with a modern flair, these sleek, sturdy, safe and stylish coffee mug options are made from hard plastic, glass or metal and engineered to hold a hot beverage or cold beverage, keeping your tea and coffee hot for hours and an iced drink chilled for just as long. So, do the environmentally conscious thing and bring one of these reusable travel mugs with you to your favorite coffee shops or the next time you make a coffee run. The planet -- and your wallet -- will thank you. Read more: Great gifts for coffee lovers Best insulated travel coffee mug Yeti Rambler tumbler Amazon Coffee drinkers rejoice! Imagine the amazing insulated power of a Yeti cooler -- they're the standard for fishermen and people who like the outdoors -- but in the palm of your hand. This double-walled tumbler with great insulation keeps your morning coffee piping hot and safe well into the afternoon, and the genius magnet sliding lid comes apart when it's time to throw it all in the dishwasher to clean (yes, this baby is dishwasher safe), should that be an option. It's also the perfect size for most car cup holders when you're driving through the great outdoors -- or just, um, to the office. Also available in a standard mug size with handle. $30 at Amazon Best designed travel coffee mug Kinto travel tumbler Amazon If you're picky about your coffee, you probably have opinions on reusable coffee mugs, too. This durable super-chic to-go mug comes in neutral shades and has a stainless steel insulated cup that keeps coffee or tea safe at the same temp for up to six hours. Yasssss. The lid spins off to reveal an opening that you can sip from at any angle, and the sleek design is totally museum-worthy. $28 at Amazon Best leak-proof travel coffee mug Contigo West Loop stainless steel travel mug Amazon No shame if you're the coffee drinker who gets more coffee on their sleeve than in their mouth whenever you're carrying a cup on the go. Thankfully, the spill proof lid (maybe you've heard of Contigo AUTOSEAL technology? It's good. Real good.) on this reusable coffee canteen -- which holds 16 ounces of hot coffee, cold brew or tea -- will keep your coffee safe. It's also slim enough to fit in a car cup holder, which means even the bumpiest of rides won't threaten the heat of your morning brew. You can practically take this cup of coffee with you anywhere. $13 at Amazon Best lid-free travel coffee mug S'well tumbler Amazon This attractive 18-ounce insulated tumbler comes in a ton of amazing shades and designs, but it's not just a pretty face: It's made from durable stainless steel and is triple-walled with insulation so that you'll never get condensation on your hands. But also, did we mention that it's p-r-e-e-e-e-e-t-t-y? Use this gorgeous and reusable coffee cup around the house to drink hot or cold beverages and find one that matches your decor (yes, that's a thing). Heads up, you have to purchase the lid separately if you want to take this one on the go. $23 at Amazon Best collapsible travel coffee mug Stojo silicone collapsible cup Amazon This is the travel mug for when your work bag is already loaded with notebooks, an iPad, your laptop and a million random receipts from heaven knows where. Made out of super-light, leak-proof BPA-free silicone, it collapses to just 2.5 inches thick, meaning you can tote it practically anywhere without adding bulk to your bag. And when your beverage needs a heat, it's microwave-safe. Hot tip: This Stojo collapsible cup also comes with a straw for when the iced coffee season hits and you want to swap piping hot java to that cold brew or iced latte. $20 at Amazon Best glass travel coffee mug KeepCup reusable coffee cup Amazon This stylish sipper holds 12 ounces of your beverage of choice and is made in the USA from soda-lime glass, which means it's easily recyclable when you're done with it eventually. It's safe to microwave, and even though it's glass, it's lightweight enough to carry with you on your morning coffee run. Thankfully, the cork band keeps your hands safe from burning and the BPA-free lid and plug are dishwasher-safe. $26 at Amazon This article was written by Julie Vadnal. It was originally published earlier, but has been updated. Read more on CNET The best water bottles in 2020 The best coffee grinders Go greener with these cool eco-friendly products 8 gifts for coffee lovers Best coffee accessories The best cold-brew coffee makers of 2020 The best espresso machines for 2020 How to make the best cold-brew coffee Read more on Chowhound How to make good coffee while traveling Coffee products you shouldn't live without Comments Small Appliances Appliances Notification on Notification off Coffee makers Close Discuss: Best travel coffee mugs for 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.