https://www.cnet.com/news/nasa-sending-sperm-to-iss-to-test-anti-gravity-on-human-fluids/
NASA sends sperm to ISS to test anti-gravity on human fluids - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Space sperm? NASA sending human swimmers to the ISS Will Earthlings be able to reproduce in space one day? NASA's Mission Micro-11 hopes to find out by launching sperm to the International Space Station. Bonnie Burton April 5, 2018 6:56 PM PDT Leer en español Space experiments have tested everything from 4K cameras to growing leafy greens in Zero-G, so why not send human swimmers to the ISS to see what happens when they float around up in the great beyond? Enlarge Image At NASA's Kennedy Space Center, researchers prepare sperm samples for launch to ISS. NASA On Monday, NASA sent frozen human and bull sperm to the ISS to test what happens when it's exposed to anti-gravity. It's just one of an array of science experiments -- ranging from biological tests related to astronaut health to studies involving grass and probiotics -- headed to the space station aboard a SpaceX rocket as part of a mission called Micro-11. Crew members will thaw and chemically activate the sperm samples to fertilize an egg. They will then video tape the sperm movements, and send data back home to Earth for more scientific analysis. "Based on previous experiments, it seems the lack of gravity facilitates sperm mobility," Fathi Karouia, a research scientist at the exobiology branch at NASA's Ames Research Center, told Inverse magazine. "This is in line with other investigations on different model organisms which have shown that microgravity conditions trigger faster cell regeneration." The exobiology branch at Ames Research Center aims to "understand pre-biotic chemistry, and the origin, evolution, distribution, and future of life in the universe." The main goal of such research is to better understand what's involved in creating habitable environments in emerging planetary systems. Studying sperm and how it acts in space makes sense, of course, for future generations that not only plan to visit other planets, but to raise families on them as well. Though as my colleague Michelle Starr reported, sex in space comes with a whole bunch of un-romantic complications, including motion sickness and a lack of ventilation for heavy breathing. More space news Big Bang: The science of sex in space SpaceX launches Falcon 9 with crazy space harpoon to ISS Elon Musk's next SpaceX rocket could blast off 100 times "We still don't know how long-duration space missions affect human reproductive health, and whether infertility may be a risk for future astronauts," NASA said in a statement. "In addition, a successful base on the Moon or Mars may require self-perpetuating colonies of animals and plants." This isn't the first experiment involving sperm in space. In 2002, NASA published an article called "Floating Fertility" that mentioned German researcher U. Engelmann, who sent samples of bull sperm into orbit aboard a European Space Agency rocket in 1998. His team discovered that the tiny cells in the sperm appeared to move better in a low-gravity environment. While scientists have been able to successfully breed frogs, salamanders, sea urchins, jellyfish, snails and even worms in space, it will still be awhile before humans start reproducing in space, let alone another planet. However, while space babies won't happen anytime soon, this latest Micro-11 mission is "the first mission to apply proven analytical methods to assess the fertility of human and bovine sperm in spaceflight," Karouia says. Space cheese and other weird items we've sent into orbit 10 Photos Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech. Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place. Comments NASA Space SpaceX Notification on Notification off Sci-Tech Close Discuss: Space sperm? NASA sending human swimmers to the ISS Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.