https://www.cnet.com/news/best-board-games-of-2020-lord-of-the-rings-mansions-of-madness-and-more/
Best board games in 2020: Lord of the Rings, Mansions of Madness and more - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best board games in 2020: Lord of the Rings, Mansions of Madness and more The hottest thing in gaming right now is classic low-tech tabletop experiences. Here's our line-up of the best board games for this year. Dan Ackerman March 20, 2020 8:51 PM PDT Zombicide: Invader Jump to details $76 at Amazon Hellboy: The Board Game Jump to details $88 at Walmart Minecraft: Builders and Biomes Jump to details $40 at Amazon Lord of the Rings: Journeys in Middle-Earth Jump to details $90 at Amazon Mansions of Madness Jump to details $79 at Walmart Horrified Jump to details $40 at Amazon Star Wars: Imperial Assault Jump to details $73 at Amazon Jaws Jump to details $30 at Target Resident Evil 2 Jump to details $61 at Amazon Arkham Horror: The Card Game Jump to details $37 at Walmart Show more (5 items) Board games have undergone somewhat of a creative renaissance over the past few years, and while some people might be inclined to blow the dust off a family game night classic game like checkers, chess, Monopoly or Clue, tabletop gaming has come a long way since the last century. The best board games now involve intricate complex strategy, problem-solving skills and hand-eye coordination. Others leave room for additional card expansion packs opening up new variations of rules and ways to play. But the best board games aren't just easy family board games. They also present an exciting challenge for serious gamers. The themes are, not surprisingly, often focused on Dungeons & Dragons-style fantasy, zombie attacks, sci-fi battles and Lovecraftian supernatural high jinks. Some popular board games, such as the more recent Lord of the Rings: Journeys in Middle-Earth, combine map tiles, miniature figures and a highly polished tablet app that handles some of the card and combat management for you. So here are some of the best board games for 2020, any one of which can turn game night into an epic adventure with real competition to win. Feel ambitious and want to make your own extra accessories, game pieces or card holders with a 3D printer? We've got ways to do that covered, too. Got your own suggestions? Let me know your board game picks in the comments or on Twitter. Zombicide: Invader CMON The latest version of this zombie-filled game series takes the action of a far-off mining colony, where zombie-like aliens team up with big boss monsters straight out of Doom. One to six players fight back, usually by using their problem-solving skills to collect some McGuffins and make for the exit as swarms of xenos flood the map. This party game is great fun that's an easy turn-based game to pick up and learn. $76 at Amazon Hellboy: The Board Game Dan Ackerman/CNET The cult classic comic gets a great game packed with comic-style art, great miniatures and lots of storytelling. The more-expensive collector's edition ups the number of minis past 100, and includes a great idea I'd love to see more often: A random mission generator for endless mix-and-match scenarios. $88 at Walmart Minecraft: Builders and Biomes Ravensburger There have been a handful of Minecraft card and board games before, but this new one -- revealed at Minecon 2019 -- feels like the most ambitious yet. You actually mine for resources with tiny wooden blocks, and combine building with fighting mobs. $40 at Amazon Lord of the Rings: Journeys in Middle-Earth Fantasy Flight Games It's time to get the fellowship back together. This is a great game for joining up with four other players (or just as a solo player) to go tromping across Middle-Earth by moving cool-looking sculpted miniatures around map tiles. There's a free, but mandatory, app available on iOS, Android and via Steam, which tells you how to lay out the map tiles and which monsters to fight. It also provides for a certain amount of randomization to challenge even the most thought-through strategies and skills. Built from the ground up as an app-based board game, it makes it easy to get set up and learn the ropes. $90 at Amazon Mansions of Madness Dan Ackerman/CNET Another giant-box game. This is one of my favorites because it includes tons of floor tiles you can use to create a haunted mansion, plus dozens of plastic miniatures for investigators and monsters. The vibe is definitely classic Lovecraft, and this board game actually requires you to use its companion app, which creates the layout, spawns monsters and even adds sound effects. $79 at Walmart Horrified Dan Ackerman This Universal Monsters-inspired game is a fun mix for those who love nostalgia and modern tabletop games, pitting players against all the classic Universal movie monsters of the 1940s and '50s, from the Wolf Man to Dracula. Just don't accidentally call Frankenstein's Monster "Frankenstein," or I'll subtweet you. $40 at Amazon Star Wars: Imperial Assault Dan Ackerman/CNET The best Star Wars game I've played in years isn't a video game -- it's this fun and challenging tabletop strategy game, where rebel heroes fight through various skirmishes with Imperial forces. There's a fantastic companion app that not only teaches you how to play, but handles the storytelling and enemy placement, too, so you don't have to guess. The miniatures are fantastic, and include a giant AT-S. Add-ons and expansions are on sale separately and can add dozens of new figures. Fun fact -- this is actually a remixed version of a game called Descent: Journeys in the Dark, so check that out if you'd love a a game that plays like Imperial Assault, but with a Dungeons & Dragons or Game of Thrones-style fantasy theme. $73 at Amazon Jaws Dan Ackerman Get those "gonna need a bigger boat" jokes out of your system now. This clever new two-part strategy game is asymmetrical, which means one player is the overpowered super shark, and the other players are hapless humans, who need to combine their strategic thinking, skills and resources with the goal to survive and win. The best feature is the game board, which flips from the beaches of Amity Island in the first half, to Quint's boat in the second half. (It gradually gets eaten by the shark.) $30 at Target Resident Evil 2 Steamforged Games As a long-time Resident Evil fan, I had to snatch this up immediately. Like many big box board games, it started as a Kickstarter project, but is now available from Amazon and other retailers. Unlike arcade-y zombie games like Zombicide, the vibe here is much closer to the survival horror feel of the Resident Evil video games. If you have a 3D printer, there are a ton of accessories, including 3D walls, doors and typewriters, which you can download and print for ways to replace the cardboard tokens that come with the game. $61 at Amazon Arkham Horror: The Card Game Dan Ackerman/CNET A stripped-down version of the Lovecraftian game subgenre. This is strictly a card-based game, so there are no map tiles or plastic game pieces. Even so, it has amazing narrative storytelling, which involves laying out location cards on the table to give each player a clear picture of what's going on and where. If you like this, it's a "living card game," which means new packs of playing cards are released on a regular basis. $37 at Walmart More fun and games Get awesome PC games Ticket to Ride and Carcassonne for free Best TVs in 2020 Top kid toys 2020: Cool toys for boys and girls Best gaming PCs for 2020 Best gaming chair for 2020 Best low-lag HDTVs for serious gamers Comments Gaming Tablets Toys and Tabletop Games Notification on Notification off Video games Close Discuss: Best board games in 2020: Lord of the Rings, Mansions of Madness and more Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.