https://www.cnet.com/news/intel-g965-driver-update-performance-boost-or-bust/
Intel G965 Driver Update: Performance Boost or Bust? - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Intel G965 Driver Update: Performance Boost or Bust? CNET Labs tests Intel's claims that new drivers for Intel's G965 chipset vastly improve 3D performance. Julie Rivera October 8, 2007 9:06 AM PDT Back in mid-August, Intel's Nick Knupffer made a promise to casual 3D gamers by suggesting that a new driver update would give systems that use the Intel G965 integrated graphics chipset a much-needed performance boost. I was highly skeptical of this claim, but wanted to put Intel's claims to the test. Sierra Entertainment To test Intel's claims, I chose an Acer TravelMate 4720-6727 laptop, which uses a 2GHz Core 2 Duo T7300 CPU, 1GB of RAM, an integrated 965GM Express graphic chipset with 384MB memory allocated, and running Windows XP Professional SP2. While this hardware combination is not the fastest available, I feel it comes close to representing a typical configuration for a midrange laptop with integrated graphics. I tested the laptop with CNET Labs' regular suite of 3D gaming benchmarks, using the originally installed driver (14.29) as well as the updated version (14.31.1). First up on the list o' games was Quake 4. At a resolution of 640x480, using the low-quality video settings, and with only vertical-sync and antialiasing (AA) turned off, the result was an average of 20.2fps with the updated driver. With the video quality changed to high quality and AA set to 4x, the average framerate decreased by only 2 percent. I continued to up the ante to 1,024x768 at high quality and AA set to 8x; ending at 12.2fps. In comparison to the older (14.29) driver, I consistently saw only a 3 percent to 3.5 percent performance increase--which actually falls within our acceptable margin of error. Next up was F.E.A.R. At 640x480, using fairly conservative performance settings, but with Enable Shadows turned on, it reached 22fps. By turning off the Enable Shadows feature, however, it achieved a more respectable 43fps. F.E.A.R. was actually the only game I saw that truly benefited from the driver update dramatically, nearly doubling the framerate. To throw something a little more current (at least as of last year, anyway) into the mix, I tried Company of Heroes, using settings specifically suggested by Intel for "optimal experience." Following Intel's suggestions, it only reached 12.1fps. I then dropped the Physics, Terrain Detail, and Effect Fidelity settings to Medium and generated 13.3fps. The only time I was able to reach 20fps or more was by dropping all the quality settings as low as they go, except for Shader Quality and Model Quality, which I left set to High. The minimal acceptable framerate for PC gamers falls into the 30 to 40fps range--but only when you are forced to make compromises, such as image quality vs. performance. Otherwise, the typical preferred minimum framerate is 60 to 70fps. I didn't hit framerates close to either of these two ranges, with the exception of F.E.A.R, which is the least taxing of the games I used for testing. In addition to benchmarking the above titles, I also played a few other games, such as Doom 3. Consistently, with the benchmarks and anecdotal gaming, I found that I had to make too many sacrifices to image quality in order to even try to get close to acceptable framerates. Even then, most of the time the image-quality sacrifices were still not enough to generate acceptable framerates. It appears that my skepticism was well-founded, as Intel did not deliver on its promise. CNET Labs has yet to see an integrated graphics solution from Intel that is robust enough to meet the expectations of even the most-casual 3D gamer. To think that a mere driver update would provide the necessary boost would be naive. But don't give up on Intel quite yet; its recent acquisition of Havok indicates that Intel is willing to take gaming seriously, and leaves the door open for what the future may bring. Comments Crave Laptops Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Intel G965 Driver Update: Performance Boost or Bust? Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.