https://www.cnet.com/news/how-to-change-your-zoom-background-like-everyone-else-is-doing-right-now/
How to change your Zoom background just like everyone else is doing right now - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In How to change your Zoom background just like everyone else is doing right now Why show off your messy living room when you can video chat from the beach or the starship Enterprise? Alison DeNisco Rayome March 27, 2020 3:00 AM PDT Leer en español Sarah Tew/CNET Millions of people have taken to the Zoom video chat app to work and study from home during this coronavirus pandemic. And many have discovered a fun little setting that transforms your video background from the room behind you to outer space or the San Francisco Golden Gate Bridge. You can even upload a photo to customize your own. For the most part, Zoom -- which is seeing a tremendous rise in use as a result of states mandating shelter-in-place and other measures -- will hold onto your background image pretty well, making for a fun way to express yourself, or hide the cluttered room behind you. After all, you may want participants to focus on you, rather than your curio collection. Just be aware that you do need to make sure your system has the right requirements to change your Zoom background. And if you tend to gesture a lot or rock back in your chair, or a wayward pup or child lands on your lap during your call, your caller will notice breaks in the background. Don't worry, they'll resolve shortly. Read more: 13 Zoom video chat tips, tricks and hidden features What's more fun than beaming into conference calls from outer space? Screenshot by Alison DeNisco Rayome/CNET Change your Zoom background on the desktop app 1. In the Zoom app, click your profile in the top right corner, and click Settings. 2. On the menu to the left, click Virtual Background. 3. You'll see a few default background options provided by Zoom, including an outer space scene or blades of grass. You can choose one of those by clicking on it, and it will automatically change your screen as well. There's also an option for if you have a green screen and want to use that. 4. If you want to upload a photo to use as your background, on the same Virtual Background Page, click the + icon next to where it says Choose Virtual Background. A box will pop up allowing you to upload a photo from your computer. Click on the one you want, and it will appear alongside the other pictures as an option for you to choose from. 5. To get rid of any photos you upload, tap the X in their top left corner. Read more: Zoom, Skype, FaceTime: 11 great tips to make video calls actually fun Change your Zoom background on the mobile app 1. When you log into your account and join a meeting, tap the three dots at the bottom right of the screen to open the More menu. 2. Tap Virtual Background. 3. Select a background from the default options, or upload your own. Read more: 10 free video chat apps to use if you're social distancing Now playing: Watch this: Great online education and distance learning services... 1:27 Another Zoom tip: Add a beauty filter You've probably heard all of the work from home advice by now -- wake up on time, shower, get dressed like it's a day at the office. But if it's one of those days where you don't think you're looking your best, Zoom has an answer: a feature called Touch Up My Appearance. Basically, it's a softening filter, like you'd find on Instagram, Facetune or your phone's selfie camera. To turn it on, click the up arrow next to Start Video. Click Video Settings, and under My Video, check the box for Touch Up My Appearance. That's it! For more tips to help get you through social distancing and self-quarantine, check out whether you should use Zoom or Skype for working from home, our guide to everything you need to stay healthy and entertained while practicing social distancing, and all of the practical tips to help avoid coronavirus when you leave the house. 35 things to buy if you're stuck at home thanks to coronavirus (besides toilet paper) 35 Photos Comments Android Update iPhone Update CNET Apps Today Mobile Software Laptops Applications Computers Mobile Apps Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: How to change your Zoom background just like everyone else is doing right now Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.