https://www.cnet.com/news/new-york-resident-files-quixotic-suit-over-iphone-price-cut/
New York resident files quixotic suit over iPhone price cut - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In New York resident files quixotic suit over iPhone price cut Strange things are happening this week in the borough of Queens, as one New York resident has decided to sue Apple, Steve Jobs and AT&T. Tom Krazit September 28, 2007 3:52 PM PDT The erratic play of the New York Mets appears to have spurred at least one city resident and iPhone owner on a perplexing quest for justice. Either the iPhone price cut is making people wacky, or there's something in the water in Queens. CNET Networks Dongmei Li, a resident of the borough of Queens, sued Apple earlier this week for "price discrimination" brought on by the $200 drop in the price of the iPhone announced earlier this month by Apple CEO Steve Jobs. Li names Apple, Jobs and AT&T as defendants in her suit, filed on Monday and spotted by AppleInsider. The claims in the case make about as much sense to me, a long-suffering Mets fan, as the continual game of bullpen roulette played by team manager Willie Randolph, who also plies his trade in Queens (for now). According to documents filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, there are three central claims to Li's case. The first? "Apple's price reduction has hurt early purchasers' competition with Apple because they cannot sell it for as high a profit as they could have before the price cut." Li says she bought the $499 4GB model, discontinued after the price cut, on iPhone Day. Obviously, nobody's going to spend more than $499 on a 4GB iPhone today when they can go out and buy the 8GB one for $399, so Li's potential profits are indeed dashed. But it's not like the early iPhone resellers made substantial profits on their purchases in the first place. And is Apple really obligated to take into account the potential profits of individuals reselling their iPhones when making pricing decisions? I'm not lawyer, but that theory seems a bit off the straight and narrow, kind of like a Guillermo Mota fastball. The second one is even better. "Apple's price reduction has hurt early purchasers' competition with later purchasers because they cannot resell their iPhones for as low a price as later purchasers may." Why not? What exactly is preventing you from selling your iPhone for as low a price as you want? If you're serious, Ms. Li, I'll give you ten bucks for it. If that's too high, I can come down to $5. But that's my lowest offer. That's not even my favorite one. In another claim, she advances one of the most creative conspiracy theories I've read yet concerning Apple's motivation for the iPhone price cut. Both the Mets, and this lawsuit, could use your prayers. Flickr user saragoldsmith First, she alleges that Apple is losing money on each sale of a $399 8GB iPhone. Just for the sake of argument, we'll assume that illogical unsupported statement is accurate. So, then, what would be Apple's motivation? "Apple is selling its iPhone for an unreasonably low price to hurt competition between early and later purchasers so that the early purchasers cannot resell for as high a profit as they could have without the price cut. Apple is selling its iPhone for an unreasonably low price to hurt the competition that purchasers pose to it from reselling their iPhones." There you have it, folks, it's all become clear. Apple wasn't trying to sell more iPhones during the upcoming holiday season. They weren't trying to kick-start demand to hit their sales targets for the quarter. They weren't trying to milk profits out of their faithful early adopters. They are trying to rip the heart out of that nonexistent iPhone resale market to deny profits to individuals who thought they were Apple's resellers. I thought New York was a hip, tech-savvy place these days. There's no shortage of iPhone owners irked by the steep and sudden drop in price, but this is the wackiest iPhone lawsuit I've seen since that guy from suburban Chicago who thought Apple was forcing his battery to die after a year. Probably a long-suffering Cubs fan. People, it's just baseball, let's not let it drive us to commit wild acts of litigation. However, I can understand what it feels like to battle against the odds. After all, ya gotta believe. Comments Gadgets Culture Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: New York resident files quixotic suit over iPhone price cut Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.