https://www.cnet.com/news/uk-iphone-unveiled-on-o2-network-at-london-apple-store/
UK iPhone unveiled on O2 network at London Apple Store - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In UK iPhone unveiled on O2 network at London Apple Store The wait is over. Today Apple launched the iPhone in London -- and it's the standard 8GB, non-3G version. Prepare to be disappointed if you're not on O2 and don't have £269 Andrew Lim September 19, 2007 6:14 AM PDT The wait is finally over -- Apple has officially unveiled the UK iPhone, which will be available to buy from 9 November. Steve Jobs himself made the announcement from the Apple store in London, to which we were cordially invited this morning. As expected, it's on the O2 network and we won't be getting the 4GB version, we'll only get the 8GB one, which will set you back £269 including VAT. In terms of the monthly contract you'll have to pay on top of the two hundred and sixty nine smackeroos for the handset, it stands at £35, £45 or £55 per month over an 18-month contract. That's a whopping £899 to £1,259 in total -- now that's a nerd tax. It's very pricey compared to getting a free phone, but you will get unlimited data -- which is actually limited to 1,400 Web pages a day "as part of the fair usage agreement". The O2 store has more details of the tariffs: £35 a month buys you 200 minutes, 200 texts, unlimited data and Wi-Fi and free voicemail. £45 upgrades that to 600 minutes and 500 texts, while the top-end £55 contract gets 1,200 minutes and 500 texts. Hardly generous, we have to say. If you were waiting for a 3G iPhone, unfortunately you're going to have to keep on waiting -- Jobs says we'll see it "later next year". On a positive note though, O2 has upgraded its network to support EDGE, which will at least deliver faster download speeds than GPRS. Visual voicemail will also be enabled, as in the US. And O2 has promised that 7,500 Wi-Fi hotspots (from the The Cloud) will be free for iPhone users to use. O2 has partnered with Carphone Warehouse for distribution -- you can buy it in an Apple store too, of course -- and has promised 1,000 customer service agents will be dedicated to iPhone customers. We'll also be putting up a video later on in the day on the Crave homepage. In the meantime, you can read our full review of the iPhone from CNET.com, which will be updated soon with any UK-specific details. Click through for photos from the event. -Andrew Lim Update: A video of the UK iPhone launch is now live on the site. We turned up at Apple's Regent Street store in London at 10am sharp. The gentlemen of the press assemble. And unexpectedly, Apple chief Steve Jobs appears. Ooooh... Steve whips out some girthy numbers -- 1 million iPhones sold in 74 days in the US. Predictably, the iPhone is on the O2 network. Steve claims it's "the most popular". Ahem. O2 boss Matthew Key is wheeled on to gloat. Carphone Warehouse, free Wi-Fi, blah blah blah. He doesn't mention that it'll cost you a minimum of £899 to use an iPhone for 18 months, and that's with a miserable 200-minute package. Jobs comes to his rescue, and is promptly hit with the 3G question. He plays an unconvincing forward defensive stroke: it saps battery. Hmm. Enough of the yapping. Here's an authentic CNET.co.uk hand on a UK iPhone. Huzzah. The purple icon at the bottom right is for the iTunes Wi-Fi Store, which should be up and running in time for the iPhone's release. Oooh, it is thin, isn't it? The top demurely offers you a headphone jack and the power button... ...while the bottom features the standard iPod connector and the speakers. Here's the touchscreen keypad. And here's Safari, browsing happily over Wi-Fi. O2 says iPhone users will be able to use 7,500 Cloud Wi-Fi hotspots for no extra charge. We should think not. Here's the dock. Note the naff white headphones, clashing away. Comments Phones Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: UK iPhone unveiled on O2 network at London Apple Store Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.