https://www.cnet.com/news/fbi-issues-warning-for-covid-19-stimulus-package-scams/
FBI issues warning about COVID-19 stimulus-package scams - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In FBI issues warning about COVID-19 stimulus-package scams Online thieves will try to take advantage of the $2 trillion package, the bureau says. Alfred Ng March 26, 2020 1:22 PM PDT Listen - 02:13 In the US, millions of people will be seeking financial assistance from the $2 trillion relief package offered by the government. And in turn, hackers will be seeking to con those millions of people, the FBI warns. James Martin/CNET For the most up-to-date news and information about the coronavirus pandemic, visit the WHO website. Hackers and scammers online have ramped up attacks to take advantage of the coronavirus pandemic, and that could mean targeting the US COVID-19 relief effort next, the FBI has warned. On Wednesday, the US Senate passed a $2 trillion aid package to financially support people affected by the coronavirus outbreak. With businesses temporarily closing and a record 3.3 million Americans filing for unemployment benefits because of the pandemic, the stimulus deal is intended to help boost the US economy. The package offers direct payments of $1,200 to most adults making up to $75,000, or $2,400 for couples making up to $150,000. It'll also expand unemployment benefits and provide laid-off workers full pay for four months. Coronavirus updates FDA warns at-home coronavirus tests are unauthorized and fraudulent Zoom has been a chaotic beacon of light during the coronavirus lockdown FBI says beware of stimulus-package scams Snowden says government surveillance amid COVID-19 could be long lasting With millions of people out of work and expecting to file for these benefits, hackers could have an opportunity to snare unsuspecting victims. In a warning from the FBI's Internet Crime Complaint Center, the agency explained that the US government would never send an email out asking for people's personal information to get federal aid. "While talk of economic stimulus checks has been in the news cycle, government agencies are not sending unsolicited emails seeking your private information in order to send you money," the FBI said in its post. CNET Coronavirus Update Keep track of the coronavirus pandemic. Online scams based on disaster relief aren't new. Hackers frequently take advantage of crises, like Hurricane Harvey in 2017 or Hurricane Katrina in 2005. In March, the Department of Homeland Security's Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency warned about scams tied to COVID-19. The coronavirus pandemic could be the Federal Emergency Management Agency's biggest disaster ever, with a lack of resources to deal with how quickly the disease has spread across communities. The outbreak's effects will be leaving millions of people seeking federal aid through the stimulus package, if the legislation passes the House of Representatives and is signed by the White House. That influx leaves a prime chance for potential hackers to steal financial and personal information from victims who need relief. The Justice Department has opened a hotline for any scams related to COVID-19 and has already taken action against fraudulent cases tied to the disease. Other scams the FBI has warned about include fake cures, fake charities and hackers posing as health officials from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention or the World Health Organization. Now playing: Watch this: Coronavirus lockdown: Why social distancing saves lives 5:41 Fighting coronavirus starts with this medical and tech gear 24 Photos The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Security Coronavirus Notification on Notification off Health and Wellness Close Discuss: FBI issues warning about COVID-19 stimulus-package scams Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.