https://www.cnet.com/news/marvel-jessica-jones-season-3-on-netflix-everything-we-know-so-far/
Jessica Jones season 3 on Netflix: Everything we know so far - CNET CNET tambi칠n est치 disponible en espa침ol. Ir a espa침ol Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Espa침ol China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Jessica Jones season 3 on Netflix: New trailer, photos and release date revealed The hard-drinking superhero detective returns June 14, and a new enemy wants her dead. Here's everything we know so far. Bonnie Burton June 8, 2019 2:40 PM PDT Warning: Possible spoilers ahead for Marvel's Jessica Jones. Some superheroes would rather blend in and drink at bars in peace. But superpowered, sarcastic New York private detective Jessica Jones never seems to get her wish to be left alone. She's suffered through childhood trauma, sexual assault and murder. And in season 3, debuting on Netflix June 14, we'll see Jones go head-to-head with a new adversary. This season will also serve as the final batch of Marvel live-action episodes coming to Netflix, following the streaming service canceling both Jessica Jones and The Punisher. Marvel Entertainment and Netflix released the new trailer for season 3 of Jessica Jones on June 6, revealing more footage of Jones drinking, fighting and having a few choice words with the new villain, named Gregory Salinger (Jeremy Bobb). In the new trailer, Salinger calls to tells her, "Jessica Jones, you're a cheater. You were given every advantage. Allowed to make mistake after mistake. You can't control yourself. You have no discipline, just brute force. I want you to die." Marvel Entertainment and Netflix also posted on Twitter and Youtube a teaser trailer for season 3 on May 28, announcing the series release date of June 14. The trailer description said, "Sometimes not even 'heroes' can save themselves." On May 23, star Krysten Ritter shared a short video on Instagram of herself as Jessica Jones drinking at a bar, and wrote in the caption that season 3 would be "coming soon." Ritter plays the eponymous Jessica Jones, a hard-drinking private investigator with superhuman strength. She's joined by best friend and adoptive sister Trish Walker (Rachael Taylor), who aspires to be a hero like Jones. View this post on Instagram JESSICA JONES 3 - coming soon. 游땓 A post shared by Krysten Ritter (@therealkrystenritter) on May 23, 2019 at 3:09pm PDT Then there's powerful attorney Jeri Hogarth (Carrie-Anne Moss), who sometimes hires Jess for her services, for better or worse. The Jessica Jones TV series is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe and Jones herself has featured in Marvel's The Defenders crossover series, also on Netflix, featuring Iron Fist, Luke Cage and Daredevil. Melissa Rosenberg will run the final season as executive producer, and co-heads of Marvel Television Jeph Loeb and Jim Chory will be working alongside her. Jessica Jones (Krysten Ritter) returns with more drinking and crime fighting. Netflix Who's making it? The director of the season 1 pilot episode, S.J. Clarkson, was recently announced as the first female director of an upcoming Star Trek movie. Season 2 of Jessica Jones was helmed by an all-female roster of talented directors, including Jennifer Lynch and Uta Briesewitz (The Wire). "I knew I wanted to have at least half our directors be women and people of color, and as we began to book them, it became clear there were so many of them. I wasn't discovering anyone. These were all seasoned pros, and it just kind of grew into this. But I'm glad this really made an impact of normalizing it," Rosenberg, the executive producer, told Variety. Though season 3 directors have yet to be announced, chances are we'll be seeing more female directors take charge of future episodes. What we know about the plot In season 1, we're introduced to Jones sometime after her experience with Kilgrave, a villain who uses mind control and who raped her as well as forced her against her will to murder. In season 2, we see Jones coming to terms with her childhood trauma and her real mother. Now in season 3, when Jones crosses paths with a highly intelligent psychopath named Gregory Salinger, she and Walker must repair their fractured friendship to join forces and take him down. But when a tragic loss reveals Jones' and Walker's conflicting ideas of what it means to be a hero, it sets them on a collision course that'll change them both forever. Rosenberg told the Los Angeles Times that season 3 aspires "to do something different again. We've delved a lot into her past -- maybe this time, we'll focus on ... it's wide open. We can really do anything." Jessica Jones (Krysten Ritter) returns to Netflix on June 14. Netflix Some theories (based on the comics) In the comics, Jones went to high school with Peter Parker (Spider-Man), and her father worked for Tony Stark (Iron Man). So while fans already got a glimpse of Jones' horrific childhood car accident in season 2, the series has yet to connect her past with other Marvel characters from the Avengers. Also in the original comics, Jones and Cage are married with a daughter named Danielle (who's surprisingly named after their fellow Defender, the very annoying Danny Rand aka Iron Fist). It'd be great to see Jones and Cage reconnect in season 3, since Cage is nowhere to be found in season 2. More Jessica Jones Marvel's Jessica Jones: Dark final season hits Netflix June 14 What it's like to live as Jessica Jones for a day Why Jessica Jones is the #MeToo Marvel superhero we need The couple's nanny in the comics is none other than Doreen Green (Squirrel Girl), who also happens to be a character in the upcoming TV series Marvel's New Warriors. Fingers crossed Marvel sees fit to add the unusual superhero nanny if Cage and Jones do have a child in season three of Jessica Jones. Now that Walker has superpowers thanks to an incident at the end of season 2, fans might finally get to see her as her superhero alter-ego Hellcat from the original Marvel comics. This opens up an interesting season 3 plot idea of regular humans trying to find ways to get superpowers like Walker did. Plus, Walker's egomaniacal quest to be the best superhero ever might really rub Jones the wrong way, especially since Walker accused her of being a coward for not using her powers more to save people in trouble. Trish Walker (Rachael Taylor) trains hard to be a hero on Marvel's Jessica Jones season 3. Netflix "Walker is a character that has a lot of ambition and a lot of appetite," Taylor told Den of Geek. "I think in some way she's quite coveted of the powers that Jones has. Walker really wants to matter. She wants to do more. She wants to be more than what she is." And then there's the not-so-adoring public when it comes to superheroes. In season 2, we already see both the police force, Jones' building manager and perfect strangers treat Jones like a dangerous freak because she's known to have superpowers. This powered-people discrimination from normal humans will probably be more of a plot point in season 3, especially now that superheroes have been outed after the very public actions of the Avengers. When will Jessica Jones season 3 come out? All 13 episodes of season 3 debut on Netflix on June 14, 2019. Meet the (possible) cast Krysten Ritter as Jessica Jones Rachael Taylor as Trish Walker Eka Darville as Malcolm Ducasse Carrie-Anne Moss as Jeri Hogarth Rebecca De Mornay as Walker's mom and Jones' adoptive mom Dorothy Walker Benjamin Walker as Erik Jeremy Bobb as Gregory Salinger Sarita Choudhury Tiffany Mack Jessica Frances Dukes Aneesh Sheth Show Us Yours: Marvel fandom pictures from our readers 49 Photos This piece was originally published on May 27, 2018, and is updated as news rolls in. Comments TV and Movies Notification on Notification off Netflix Close Discuss: Jessica Jones season 3 on Netflix: New trailer, photos and release date revealed Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Espa침ol MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow 춸 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.