https://www.cnet.com/news/new-mattress-too-soft-try-these-tips-to-make-it-more-firm/
How to make your soft mattress more firm - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In How to make your soft mattress more firm If your new mattress lacks the support you need, try these tips before buying another one Mercey Livingston October 27, 2019 7:30 AM PDT If your new mattress is too soft, you don't have to buy a new one to fix the problem. Getty Images Do you feel like you can relate to Goldilocks when it comes to finding the right mattress? You don't want one that's too firm, and a mattress that's too soft can be just as uncomfortable. When your mattress is too soft, it can lack the support that you need, which is a recipe for sleep disaster. For some, the perfect mattress just does not exist – and that's OK. If you've found yourself with a new mattress that is pretty good, but is just not quite as firm you'd like, there are several things you can do (inexpensively) to make your mattress more firm. Keep reading for several ideas you can try to make your soft mattress more firm and supportive. Read more: How to use tech to track your sleep | The 10 best pillows in 2019, according to the internet | Find the best mattress in 2019: 11 top brands compared Give it a solid surface A wood slat foundation is one type of support that can make your mattress feel firmer. Casper The first thing you can consider changing for a firmer mattress is the support structure. Do you have it on a boxspring? If so, consider the age and shape of the boxspring. If it's older and not as sturdy as it once was, this can cause the mattress to feel less supportive. Also if you have a foam mattress, you may need to ditch the boxspring all together since some manufacturers recommend using a more flat and solid surface to support the foam mattress's weight. Some other types of platforms you could try are a slat foundation, platform bed, or another foundation that is stable, solid and provides a more even surface than a bouncier boxspring. You can also try placing a piece of plywood in between the bed foundation and the mattress, according to Nectar Sleep. This may be especially helpful with a foam mattress since they need a sturdier foundation. Try a mattress topper A latex mattress topper can help your soft bed feel more supportive. Sleep On Latex You may be familiar with plush mattress toppers that make your bed feel even softer, but there are plenty of mattress toppers that can do just the opposite. When it comes to choosing a topper that will make your bed more firm, you can generally find options made of either memory foam, latex or polyurethane. You'll want to look for a topper that's 2 inches or more thick. You can also check the ILD (impression load deflection) if you're shopping for a latex topper. The ILD tells you how firm the mattress topper feels. The higher the number, the more dense and firm it will feel. Read more: 11 meditation apps for better sleep and less stress Turn down the thermostat in your bedroom Tyler Lizenby/CNET If you have a foam mattress and normally sleep in a warmer room, one thing you can try is cooling down the room. The cooler temperature can make your foam mattress feel firmer, since heat can soften the density of the foam. It'll also help you sleep a bit better. Keep in mind that your body heat will also affect it some, but it can't hurt to try turning down the thermostat to see if it makes a difference for your mattress. Try cooling down your room at least a few hours before bed so that the room and mattress has enough time to cool down. The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Sleep Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: How to make your soft mattress more firm Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.