https://www.cnet.com/news/linkedin-confirms-100-million-members-emails-and-passwords-from-2012-hack-are-now-online/
LinkedIn hack echoes anew: Time to change your password...again - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Maybe it's time to change your LinkedIn password...again The social network confirms email and password combinations for more than 100 million members, stemming from a 2012 data breach, have been posted online. May 18, 2016 11:02 AM PDT Leer en español It's apparently the hack that keeps on giving. LinkedIn says its taking action after more than 100 million members' emails and passwords were released online resulting from a data breach four years ago. CBS LinkedIn announced Wednesday that more than 100 million members' email and password combinations stemming from a 2012 data breach have been posted online, residual fallout from hackers stealing and publicly releasing a separate set of 6.5 million encrypted passwords. "Yesterday, we became aware of an additional set of data that had just been released that claims to be email and hashed password combinations of more than 100 million LinkedIn members from that same theft in 2012," the company said in a blog. "We are taking immediate steps to invalidate the passwords of the accounts impacted, and we will contact those members to reset their passwords." LinkedIn said it has no indication that the released emails and passwords are a result from another hack. According to a story from Vice's Motherboard, a hacker named "Peace" is trying to sell the emails and passwords of 117 million LinkedIn members on a dark website for about $2,200 in bitcoin. LinkedIn said it has improved its security for its members since the hack including stronger encryption and and two-factor authentication. But even that isn't foolproof, said Lisa Sotto, a New York-based lawyer and cybersecurity expert who chairs the US Department of Homeland Security's Data Privacy and Integrity Advisory Committee. She said all LinkedIn users should assume their passwords are "out in the wild," as a result of this breach or from the original hack. "Unfortunately, as with many cybersecurity incidents, the facts change as the investigation progresses or as time passes and the intruders make their bounty known by posting it on the dark web," she said. "Today's threat actors are particularly wily -- they often delete their footprints, making it is difficult to determine where in a network they have been and what they have nabbed." A new breach from the LinkedIn hack comes as no surprise to Orlando Scott-Cowley, a specialist with email security provider Mimecast. The social network aimed at business professionals could be vulnerable to more breaches as cybercriminals are likely building "very accurate pictures" of companies and employees ripe for targeting, he added. "Once that 'picture' is complete, the email account of the target becomes the holy grail for the attackers," he said. Update, May 18 at 8 p.m. PT: Adds comments from cybersecurity expert. Comments Culture LinkedIn Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Maybe it's time to change your LinkedIn password...again Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.