https://www.cnet.com/news/starbucks-stores-in-the-us-are-closed-but-you-can-still-get-your-coffee-fix/
How to order your Starbucks coffee this weekend while stores are closed - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In How to order your Starbucks coffee this weekend while stores are closed Starbucks stores are temporarily shut to walk-in orders in the US and UK, but you can still get your lattes and cappuccinos. Jessica Dolcourt March 27, 2020 12:00 AM PDT Uber Eats is one delivery option. Starbucks Starbucks stores are closed to walk-in orders and take-out in the US until at least Friday, April 3. The cafes are also shut in the UK and other countries affected by the coronavirus outbreak. The coffee chain closed its over 10,000 US shops to foot traffic on March 20 for at least two weeks. But, good news for your venti extra-hot soy milk 8 pump hazelnut latte: There are still ways to order Starbucks beverages and food. Many locations are open for drive-through and the chain has a partnership with several delivery companies. Here's how to get your fix until the stores reopen their doors. Read more: Great coffee subscriptions for every type of coffee drinker You don't have to kick your frappuccino habit yet. Starbucks Mexico Twitter Starbucks drive-through windows While you can't walk into a Starbucks store to order or pick up your drink, you can get it from a location with a drive-through window. Roughly 60% of all Starbucks stores in the US have a drive-through option, according to a company representative. You can either order ahead on your phone's Starbucks app or order when you get to the drive-through. To find out where your closest Starbucks Drive-Thru location is, consult the store locator website, which will zero in on your location, or search the Starbucks app. Once you open the app, tap Stores, then Filter (in the top right corner), and select Drive-Thru. Then tap Show stores. Read more: The best coffee grinder you can buy right now Delivery apps and services In January, Starbucks announced a partnership with Uber Eats to bring delivery to 49 markets across 33 US states. There's even a dedicated Starbucks mini site within UberEats.com where you can check if delivery exists in your location. Here are some delivery sites that will bring Starbucks menu items to your doorstep. You'll need to check your area for eligibility and delivery fees may apply. During the coronavirus outbreak, we recommend tipping your delivery driver more. UberEats DoorDash Postmates Seamless GrubHub Now playing: Watch this: Pandemic: Here's what's changed about the coronavirus 5:54 Find the exceptions to the rule Although most of the country's Starbucks coffee shops are closing, a smattering of shops will remain open. "Some exceptions will be made for those cafes serving in or around hospitals and health care centers in our efforts to serve first responders and health care workers," Starbucks wrote in the statement published online. Non-Starbucks operated stores It isn't clear if Starbucks stores that aren't operated by the company -- but which use its name and products -- will still be open for take-out orders, such as Starbucks shops in hotel lobbies. If you're nearby one and jonesing for a cappuccino while practicing safe social distancing, it could be worth checking just in case. Remember that if you do leave the house during the coronavirus crisis, take these 10 practical precautions to help avoid the virus. Stay up to date on the latest news through phone alerts and keep from feeling lonely with these seven ways to connect with community while you're staying at home. Read more: Best healthy food delivery services for 2020 Coronavirus in pictures: Scenes from around the world 63 Photos The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Health and Wellness Culture Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: How to order your Starbucks coffee this weekend while stores are closed Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.