https://www.cnet.com/news/sprint-nextel-continues-to-bleed-customers/
Sprint Nextel continues to bleed customers - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Sprint Nextel continues to bleed customers As it struggles to regain its footing amid a sales decline and complaints of poor service following a failed merger, wireless-service provider rapidly loses customers to rivals. Marguerite Reardon May 12, 2008 8:57 AM PDT Sprint Nextel subscribers continue to jump ship, as the company's sales decline and losses widen. The company has been struggling for several quarters as customers have complained of poor service, especially from its Nextel division. Sprint bought Nextel for $35 billion in 2005, and the merger has largely been a failure, costing the company billions of dollars to integrate while causing the company to also lose millions of newly dissatisfied customers. Many Nextel customers have complained of poor service and a lack of handset choices. Investors have been pushing the company to sell assets and focus on its core cell phone business. Recently, the company has been rumored to be in talks to sell its Nextel division. And last week, it announced would spin off its next-generation WiMax network in a joint venture that includes six other companies. CEO Dan Hesse wouldn't comment on rumors that the company is thinking about dumping Nextel, but he acknowledged that Sprint has considered selling some assets. He said a spin-off of Nextel assets would involve "significant complexities." The company lost $505 million for the quarter, compared to a loss of $211 million a year earlier. In February, the company announced a whopping $29.5 billion loss for the fourth quarter. This was due to the write-down of most of the assets from the Nextel merger. Revenue in the first quarter also fell 7.5 percent, to $9.33 billion. Sprint continued to lose customers in the first quarter, with about 1.1 million "post paid" subscribers, or customers who pay a monthly bill for service, ditching the service. This is compared to 1.07 million post-paid customers who left in the fourth quarter and a loss of 1.2 million customers in all of 2007. Hesse had warned in February that Sprint expected to lose about 1.2 million customers in the first quarter. Sprint also lost about 543,000 prepaid customers, or customers who pay for service in advance. On the flipside, the company gained 343,000 customers through its youth-oriented brand, Boost. And it gained 183,000 subscribers from carriers that wholesale its network. In total, Sprint now has 52.8 million subscribers. The company's churn rate, or the rate at which people cancel its service, increased to 2.45 percent from 2.3 percent last quarter. Meanwhile, Sprint's competitors have been adding customers. AT&T added 1.3 million wireless subscribers during the first quarter. And Verizon Wireless gained 1.5 million customers. Despite the disappointing quarter, Hesse tried to remain positive. During the fourth-quarter earnings call, he had said it would take several quarters for Sprint to recover. And while the company is still clearly a long way away from a full recovery, Hesse said he sees "improved profitability in the long term." The company is taking initiatives to get back on track. It is using its new "Simply Everything" service plan to help retain customers. This plan offers unlimited voice, data, text messaging, and Web surfing for $99.99 a month. Hesse wouldn't divulge specifics, but he said during the call that the plan is selling better than expected and has helped keep some customers. Hesse is also continuing to cut costs. The company expects to lay off 4,000 workers. It also plans to close some retail stores. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Sprint Nextel continues to bleed customers Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.