https://www.cnet.com/news/intel-breathless-with-nehalem-anticipation/
Intel breathless with Nehalem anticipation - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Intel breathless with Nehalem anticipation At IDF, Intel's Pat Gelsinger barely restrains his excitement about the next-generation 'Nehalem' processors due in 2008. Stephen Shankland September 18, 2007 6:00 PM PDT SAN FRANCISCO--This Nehalem plan better work out for Intel, because the chipmaker set very high expectations for the next-generation processor design Tuesday. Pat Gelsinger, general manager of Intel's Digital Enterprise Group, speaks at Intel Developer Forum in San Francisco. Stephen Shankland/CNET Networks Pat Gelsinger, general manager of Intel's Digital Enterprise Group, demonstrated a Nehalem-based system at the Intel Developer Forum here that he said will bring major performance improvements for the company's x86 processor line. The processor family itself is due to arrive in 2008. The Nehalem demonstration featured a system with two quad-core processors; each processing core can handle two independent instruction sequences called threads, and the demo showed all 16 threads at work on various tasks. The processor was the very first incarnation of Nehalem--the "A0" version--built for the first time three weeks ago, Gelsinger said. "What you saw today was incredible health," he boasted during a meeting with reporters after the speech. "It really is pretty spectacular, and we're excited by the progress." Nehalem brings major changes not just to the processor but also to the way in which it communicates with memory and other processors, a technology formerly called CSI, which variously stood for Common System Interconnect or Interface, and now branded as QuickPath Interconnect, or QPI. QuickPath reproduces a technique that rival Advanced Micro Devices used for years to market share against Intel and secure a solid position in all four major server makers' product lines. The Nehalem processors demonstrated Tuesday each had four cores on a single slice of silicon, the approach AMD uses with its new Barcelona member of the Opteron processor family. In 2009, Intel will sell Nehalem processors with eight cores on a single slice of silicon. Intel also is expected to sell less expensive Nehalem processors with dual cores per die, a source familiar with the company's plans said. Gelsinger offered few specifics about the Nehalem performance, but said QuickPath will dramatically help with a major performance bottleneck, the delay in fetching data from memory. "When we go to Nehalem next year, we will see the memory latency and bandwidth improve dramatically," Gelsinger said. Memory bandwidth will be three times that of today's best systems, he said. QuickPath Interconnect technology, the orange links in Gelsinger's diagram here, connect dual processors on the left and four processors on the right. Stephen Shankland/CNET Networks Intel countered AMD in part by including large amounts of cache memory that can keep information readily on hand for processors instead of requiring them to fetch it from main memory. Intel won't drop its cache when it moves to QuickPath, he said, promising glorious results. "We've made up for (AMD's) better system architecture with superior caching," Gelsinger said. "When we bring those big caches over to Nehalem, wow." AMD's QuickPath rival, the Direct Connect architecture that debuted in 2003 with the Opteron and Athlon 64 processors, gave the company years of advantage over Intel. But more recent troubles there have shown that Direct Connect on its own wasn't enough to keep Intel at bay. Intel, meanwhile, restored its competitiveness by improving its chips' performance and energy efficiency. QuickPath involves two main ingredients. One is a built-in component called a memory controller that is separate on today's Intel chips; integrating the memory controller can reduce communication delays in transferring data to and from memory, and AMD has kept its performance edge when it comes to memory-intensive tasks. The second component is a direct connection among processors, which lets chips share data and lets one processor fetch information stored in memory attached to another processor. With today's technology, such communications take place through a separate processor, the "north bridge" element of the chipset that accompanies central processors. Both of Intel's major processor lines--the mainstream x86 models such as Pentium and the Itanium models geared for the high-end servers--will use QuickPath. Sun Microsystems showed an as-yet-unannounced server with four quad-core Intel processors at IDF. John Fowler, Sun's executive vice president of systems, said the 3.5-inch-thick system has all the memory, backup systems and storage as competitors' servers but is half the height. Stephen Shankland/CNET Networks To fight back against AMD, Intel embarked on a "tick-tock" strategy to improve its chip performance. In odd-numbered years, it moves to a new manufacturing process that permits smaller-scale chip features. In even-numbered years come new chip architectures. This November, the "tick" will be the arrival of Penryn chips, which reproduce the designs of today's Core processors. The circuit features of Intel's chips today use 65-nanometer features, but Penryn models are built with 45-nanometer features, letting chip sizes be shrunk considerably. In 2008 will come the "tock": Nehalem's new architecture built using Penryn's 45-nanometer process. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Intel breathless with Nehalem anticipation Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.