https://www.cnet.com/news/getting-to-know-the-meridian-audio-factory/
Getting to know the Meridian Audio factory - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Getting to know the Meridian Audio factory Cutting-edge digital, in the heart of old England. Geoffrey Morrison September 19, 2013 2:00 PM PDT Geoffrey Morrison/CNET The city of Huntingdon, home of high-end audio company Meridian, is about a quintessential British town as you could picture. It looks like a movie set. Meridian is perhaps best known for its trapezoidal digital speakers and associated preamps. The company has more recently gotten into portable DACs, music servers, car audio, and more. On a recent trip to England, I got a chance to tour the facility. I took lots of pictures for you. On my UK adventure I also checked out storied speaker company B&W's factory, and the legendary Abbey Road Studios. With a primary focus on electronics, it's not surprising that a huge part of Meridian's facility in Huntingdon holds the industrial boxes that build circuit boards. They're called P&Ps (pick-and-place) machines, or "SMT (surface mount technology) component placement systems." Using feeder rolls of what look like candy buttons, robot arms rapidly jab capacitors, resistors, integrated circuits, and other components onto a circuit board. Depending on what Meridian is making that day/week, different-size boards and different components are fed into the machine. Going up close at the Meridian Audio factory (pictures) 18 Photos To be honest, the first impression seeing these SMT machines is not one that screams high-end audio. I've toured many manufacturing facilities, making all sorts of electronics (low and high end), and they all use pretty much the same machines. What surprised and impressed me was what happens after the initial production. Every board goes through a multistage quality control check. That in itself is impressive. Most companies would just spot check a few boards out of a hundred (or thousand, or tens of thousands), not every board. This QC is extensive as well. As you'll see in the images, there's an optical check (to make sure the right parts were used, that they're orientated correctly, etc.), then there's a continuity check (to make sure they're seated correctly), then, after a 24- to 72-hour soak (as in, the boards are run like they would in a product), they're performance tested as well. This is really extensive, and therefore expensive, but potentially does wonders for initial and long term reliability. With products as expensive as most Meridian gear is, you'd certainly hope/expect it will last a long time. Here's a video of the flying-probe electrical tester, one of the stages of QC, in action. You wouldn't want to put your hand in there: Some of the boards still require placement of components by hand. Even today, there are some things that trained workers can do better than machines. Meridian After a few hours we ended up in Meridian's beautiful and acoustically excellent listening room. Meridian's speakers are a little different than most speakers you're probably used to reading about and/or hearing. Instead of an external amp (or receiver), Meridian speakers are internally amplified. This allows for lower-powered amplifiers (as they power the divers directly), but also significant possibilities in terms of digital processing. Meridian can tweak the sound almost any way it wants, since the amps and processing are internal to the speakers. They demoed for me one of the latest processing advancements, called EBA, which stands for Enhanced Bass Alignment. The idea is one that many speaker designers struggle with: the bass sounds produced by a woofer arrive slightly delayed to your ears compared to the sounds created by the midrange and tweeter. This is different compared with what happens in real life, where all the frequencies created by a musical instrument (OK, most musical instruments), leave the instrument at the same time and arrive at your ear at roughly the same time. Related stories LED LCD vs. plasma vs. LCD Active 3D vs. passive 3D: What's better? Myths, Marketing, and Misdirection: HDTV edition TV tech explainer: Every HDTV technology decoded What is refresh rate? 1080i and 1080p are the same resolution What is 600Hz? When you separate out the high and low frequencies into multiple drivers, these sounds can have a slight time difference. Other speaker companies attempt to deal with this in different ways. KEF, for example, buries the tweeter in the deep center of the woofer to help compensate for this. B&W separate and set the tweeter slightly back compared with the midrange and woofer. With EBA, Meridian can set up a delay in the tweeter and midrange to line up the sound with the woofer's so it all arrives at your ear at the same time. I got a chance to list to this with a few tracks, and it is pretty cool. There's a slight tightening of the sound, a little more precision. Instruments sound a little more realistic, and have a little more defined location in the sound stage. Is it a huge difference? No, but it's definitely noticeable and easily identifiable as better. Here's a video of Meridian co-founder Bob Stuart explaining how EBA works. Perhaps most interesting, current owners of the 7-series of speakers can upgrade to have the EBA hardware and software, making these older speakers perform exactly like new models. Not all of Meridian's gear is for the well-heeled. Check out Steve Guttenberg's review of the $299 Explorer portable USB DAC. Lastly, my thanks to Tim Ireland and Lisa Sullivan for showing me around. Got a question for Geoff? First, check out all the other articles he's written on topics like HDMI cables, LED LCD vs. plasma, active vs. passive 3D, and more. Still have a question? Send him an e-mail! He won't tell you what TV to buy, but he might use your letter in a future article. You can also send him a message on Twitter @TechWriterGeoff or Google+. Comments Home Entertainment Audio Car Tech Culture Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Getting to know the Meridian Audio factory Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.