https://www.cnet.com/news/why-fortnite-battles-nintendo-switch-ps4-arent-happening/
Fortnite community outraged by Sony's PS4 lockout - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Fortnite community outraged by Sony's PS4 lockout And Sony's response to the outcry isn't helping matters. Jason Parker June 14, 2018 9:52 AM PDT Be careful when starting Fortnite on the Switch. CNET screenshot Nintendo Switch owners can finally play Fortnite, but neither they nor PlayStation 4 players were warned that bringing their account from one platform to the other would result in a lockout. And that's sparked outrage across the gigantic Fortnite community. For those who haven't heard about the issue or run into it themselves, it's simple. Fornite is available on numerous platforms, from the PS4 to Switch, PC, Xbox One and iOS. You can use a single account to preserve your progress across all of those platforms, at least theoretically. But accounts that have been used on the PS4 are being locked out of the Switch version of Fortnite, and accounts that have been used on the Switch are being locked out of the PS4 version. Fans and gaming critics have taken to Twitter, Reddit and beyond to voice their outrage, and demand a fix. We need to be making a huge deal about the PS4 Lock out from FortNiteBR .@PlayStation, fix this. Not allowing me to sign-in to Fortnite Switch with my Epic account because it's linked to PS4 is tone deaf and points more to fear than market dominance. It does the opposite of what you want -- it makes me think about moving to Xbox for Fortnite. pic.twitter.com/D9xqv9aWdF — Greg Miller (@GameOverGreggy) June 12, 2018 This is what happens when you offer the worst experience for the most popular game in the world. Context: PS4 version of Fortnite does not support cross play, cross progression or linking of your fortnite account to other consoles. pic.twitter.com/3qGswa2FpN — Daniel Ahmad (@ZhugeEX) June 13, 2018 I don't even care about Fortnite, but this is absolute garbage. If your Fortnite account has EVER been logged onto the PS4, you can't ever play on Xbox One or Switch, not even by unlinking your account. pic.twitter.com/OuhtlPmTTv — Geek Critique (@TGCritique) June 12, 2018 According to The NPD Group's Games Acquisition Monitor, at the end of Q1 over 40% of Switch owners in the US also owned a PS4. The Fortnite issue should be rectified beyond a statement suggesting those consumers make new friends, imo. — Mat Piscatella (@MatPiscatella) June 14, 2018 And even worse, now reports are coming in of players who linked their Playstation account to an Epic account, but never played Fortnite on the PS4, being locked out of the Switch version. (With a hello to CNET alum Dan Graziano!) I’ve never played Fortnite on my PS4 (it’s not even downloaded), but I connected my PlayStation account when I created my Epic account on PC because why not? Now I can’t play on my Switch. There was no warning or anything. We should at the very least be able to unlink from Sony — Dan Graziano (@DanGraziano) June 14, 2018 Sony's response to the issue, provided to CNET Tuesday, does little to address fan concerns, nor does it say whether the issue will be resolved in the future. Instead, it's very much a statement-of-fact: "We're always open to hearing what the PlayStation community is interested in to enhance their gaming experience. Fortnite is already a huge hit with PS4 fans, offering a true free-to-play experience so gamers can jump in and play online. With 79 million PS4s sold around the world and more than 80 million monthly active users on PlayStation Network, we've built a huge community of gamers who can play together on Fortnite and all online titles. We also offer Fortnite cross-play support with PC, Mac, iOS, and Android devices, expanding the opportunity for Fortnite fans on PS4 to play with even more gamers on other platforms." This cross-platform confusion is a trend for Sony, which has repeatedly blocked efforts to bring its playerbase into the broader online multiplayer community. Many games that offer unified multiplayer experiences between PC and Xbox One are blocked from including PS4 players, and you'll notice that in the statement above, Sony excludes the Xbox One from its list of supported cross-play platforms. Now playing: Watch this: Nintendo reveals Fortnite for Switch 0:48 "We're literally at the point where all we need is the go-ahead on the Sony side and we can, in less than a business day, turn it on and have it up and working no problem. It'd literally take a few hours to propagate throughout the whole world, so really we're just waiting on the permission to do so," Rocket League VP Jeremy Dunham told IGN last year when questions over crossplay emerged for the wildly popular game. For now, the Fortnite cross-platform breakdown looks like this: PlayStation 4: PC, Mac, iOS Xbox One: PC, Mac, iOS and Nintendo Switch Fortnite is this year's biggest game phenomenon, becoming not only a huge revenue driver for Epic Games, but the biggest console free-to-play game of all time. And that was before it hit the Nintendo Switch. An Android version of Fortnite is in the works, but isn't expected to launch until later this summer. See also E3 2018 had plenty of games, tears and Fortnite -- lots of Fortnite The best and worst of E3 2018 Fallout 76: Everything we know about Bethesda's online survival RPG E3 2018 so far: Everything we've seen Biggest games of E3 2018 28 Photos E3 2018: Everything you need to know E3 2018 coverage at CNET: All of our E3 2018 coverage in one place. E3 2020 See All • reading Fortnite community outraged by Sony's PS4 lockout • Mar 19 PS5 and Xbox Series X are cool, but show me the games • Mar 18 Doom Eternal: Customizable Slayer, PC specs and everything else we know • Mar 14 SXSW, E3 canceled • Mar 13 E3 canceled: Here's what Microsoft, Ubisoft and others are doing Comments E3 2020 Fortnite Notification on Notification off Video Games Close Discuss: Fortnite community outraged by Sony's PS4 lockout Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.