https://www.cnet.com/news/linkedins-app-transmits-user-data-without-their-knowledge/
LinkedIn's app transmits user data without their knowledge - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In LinkedIn's app transmits user data without their knowledge iOS app collects users' calendar data and transmits it to the networking company's servers, without revealing the transmission to members, two mobile security researchers discover. Steven Musil June 5, 2012 7:52 PM PDT Calendar details leaked by LinkedIn's app. LinkedIn's iOS app is collecting information from calendar entries, including passwords and meeting notes, and transmitting it back to the company's servers without their knowledge, according two mobile security researchers. The business-networking giant's app for Apple's iPad and iPhone has an opt-in feature that allows users to view their calendar entries within the app. However, researchers Yair Amit and Adi Sharabani discovered that once enabled by the user, the app automatically transmits users' calendar entries back to LinkedIn servers. Amit and Sharabani expect to present their findings at a security workshop at Tel Aviv University tomorrow. The transmission of data, which is not revealed to users, may violate Apple's privacy guidelines, which prohibit apps from collecting and transmitting users' data without their express permission. Controversy erupted earlier this year when Path -- a popular iOS and Android application -- was found to be collecting user contact information without permission. Path issued an apology on the issue and introduced an updated version that required users to opt-in to the feature. Apple promised a fix that would prevent the behavior in the future, and a U.S. House subcommittee sent a letter to Apple asking why it doesn't force app developers to ask users for permission before downloading contacts. Related stories Privacy suit filed against Path, Twitter, Apple, Facebook, others Privacy dilemma for developers: Apple to the rescue? Path CEO vows stricter protection of user data The researchers said they had contacted LinkedIn about their findings but that the issue has yet to be resolved. They also said they didn't believe the social network used the data in a malicious way. "However, we are concerned by the fact it collects and sends-out sensitive information about its users, without a clear indication and consent," Amit said in a blog post describing the issue. While user contact data is valuable in helping to attract more users to the app, the researchers said there was no legitimate reason for LinkedIn to be collecting calendar data. "The biggest problematic factor lies in the fact that most of the transmitted information is not required for the app's functionality," Amit said. LinkedIn representatives did not immediately respond to a CNET request for comment but pointed out to the New York Times that the feature is an "opt-in experience" that users can opt out of at any time. "We use information from the meeting data to match LinkedIn profile information about who you're meeting with so you have more information about that person," LinkedIn spokesperson Julie Inouye said. CNET has contacted Apple and will update this report when we learn more. Updated at 8:55 p.m. PT with link to blog. Comments Internet Privacy Notification on Notification off Security Close Discuss: LinkedIn's app transmits user data without their knowledge Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.