https://www.cnet.com/news/6-simple-security-changes-all-windows-10-users-need-to-make/
6 steps to secure your Windows 10 machine, because security defaults aren't enough - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In 6 steps to secure your Windows 10 machine, because security defaults aren't enough This beginner’s guide to Windows 10 security will help you protect your device. Rae Hodge February 25, 2020 4:00 AM PST Leer en español Boosting Windows 10 security is easier than you think. SOPA Images Securing your new Windows 10 machine (or one you've recently upgraded, now that support for Windows 7 has ended) doesn't have to be complicated. With a quick run-through, you can enable some of the basic security features of the operating system -- and disable some of the more annoying ones -- without compromising your device. Here's how to do it. Read more: Windows 7 is done. Here's how to get Windows 10 for free Create your save point The first thing you should do with a new Windows 10 machine is enable a system restore. Think of it like a save point for your machine. If things go south while you're trying to set up a safer machine, you get to come back to this nice fresh install and start with a clean slate. Since it's disabled by default in Windows 10 ($145 at Walmart), you'll need to manually enable it by following these steps: 1. Go to the Windows Cortana search box and type system restore. 2. Select the Control Panel and click Create a restore point. 3. When the System Properties dialog box appears, click the System Protection tab. 4. Select the drive you've got Windows installed on. For most people this is going to be the C drive. 5. Click Configure. 6. Click Turn on system protection, then click OK. From here on out, you can always come back to the System Properties box and click System Restore to bring your machine back to this moment in time. Read more: The best antivirus protection of 2020 for Windows 10 Kill the bloatware One of the most obnoxious things about getting a new Windows machine is that it's never really new. Even if your hands are the first to pull it out of its shiny box, both Microsoft and the manufacturer have already invariably stuffed your machine with barely-functional, unwanted, or trial-version software that will sit unused in your computer, taking up valuable memory space until it eventually becomes outdated and presents a quiet set of vulnerabilities. Let's kill those programs: 1. Go to Start, then to Settings, then to Apps. 2. You should be looking at a list of all of your installed apps under your Apps & Features section. A right-click on any of them should present you with the option to uninstall them. Read more: How to clean out junk files in Windows 10 Freshman orientation for your software Now that you've done some bloatware pest control, you'll want to secure your other software and drivers by making sure they're up to date. Doing this can eliminate the risk of infection by entire classes and families of viruses and malware. The easiest way to do this is by downloading the Windows Update Assistant and following its prompts. If you have any trouble with the automated process, there's a manual option: 1. Go to Start, then to Settings. 2. Select Update & Security, then select Windows Update. Read more: Windows 10 April 2020 update: Everything you need to know Locals only By default, logging in to Windows 10 means using your Microsoft account -- the same one you use for your Microsoft email. A feature of this type of login is that any changes you make to your settings while on your new Windows 10 machine will be automatically synced across all of your other Windows 10 devices. That might seem like a convenient perk. It's not. It's essentially removing a bulkhead against multidevice compromise in the event something (or someone) affects your Microsoft account. So let's make sure you've got a unique local account login to use only on your new Windows 10 machine: Read more: 20 pro tips to make Windows 10 work the way you want (free PDF) (TechRepublic) 1. Save any work currently open, then close the program you're using. 2. Go to Start, then Settings. 3. Click Accounts, then click Your email and accounts on the left-side column. 4. Click the link that says Sign in with a local account instead. 5. When the prompt appears, type the password you currently use to log into your Microsoft account (the same password you currently use to unlock your laptop), and click Next. 6. A new prompt will ask you to create a username, password and password hint. Once you've entered the text, click Next. 7. Click Sign out and finish. This will bring you back to the machine's login screen, where you can enter your new password to log back in. At which point, you'll likely also notice a much faster login. Read more: 11 easy Windows 10 tricks you didn't know about Shut down stalkerware Windows 10 automatically tracks your location and monitors your behavior in order to sell advertising. Here's how to turn both of those features off to better protect your privacy: 1. Go to Start, then Settings. 2. Click Privacy, the icon that looks like a padlock. 3. Click Location, then click the On switch to turn location tracking off. 4. To disable ad tracking: 5. Go back to the Privacy screen you were just at. 6. Turn off the setting for Let apps use advertising ID to make ads more interesting to you based on your app activity. Read more: How to disable your webcam in Windows 10 Enable your firewall and antivirus If you've used Windows for a while now, you're familiar with the Windows Defender Security Center. It's a good first step toward monitoring the overall health of your computer, but it's not going to be enough. One other layer of security is already built into Windows 10, and you should take advantage of it by enabling firewall and antivirus protection. Here's how: 1. Go back to your Control Panel, then to System and Security. 2. Click Windows Defender Firewall, then click Turn Windows Defender Firewall on or off in the sidebar. 3. Click the button that says Turn on Windows Defender Firewall under both the public network and private network settings. 4. Tick the box that says Notify me when Windows Defender Firewall blocks a new app. Once your firewall is up, head over to CNET's roundup of the best antivirus software for Windows 10 and shop around until you find one that suits your needs. You can also check out How to run Microsoft's Windows Defender on Chrome and Firefox. Read more: Special report: A winning strategy for cybersecurity (free PDF) (TechRepublic) Now playing: Watch this: How to take Windows 10 screenshots 2:04 Originally published last year. Updated periodically with new information. Comments CNET Apps Today Security Computers Microsoft Windows 10 Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: 6 steps to secure your Windows 10 machine, because security defaults aren't enough Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.