https://www.cnet.com/news/what-iphone-apple-earnings-still-about-the-mac/
What iPhone? Apple earnings (still) about the Mac - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In What iPhone? Apple earnings (still) about the Mac It's time for Apple to show investors its quarterly report card, and while iPhone sales were down ahead of the iPhone 3G launch, the Mac was strong yet again. Tom Krazit July 21, 2008 4:00 AM PDT Usually all eyes are on Apple CEO Steve Jobs, but four times a year, CFO Peter Oppenheimer is the star. Apple The Mac will reclaim its rightful place as the most important story inside the Apple universe when the company reports its third-quarter earnings later on Monday. One could be forgiven for overlooking the Mac coming off a month of iPhone 3G madness, but the iPhone will have played a tiny role in determining the strength of Apple's quarter, which came to a close in June. Analysts expect another strong quarter from the company's Mac division to lead Apple to revenue of $7.4 billion and earnings per share of $1.08. But, as always seems to be the case, Wall Street tends to focus on the guidance for the current quarter. Almost without fail, Apple provides guidance well under what analysts are expecting: its own guidance for its third quarter is $7.2 billion in revenue and earnings per share of $1. Since everyone knows this, however, investors spin themselves silly trying to analyze what Apple is implying about the upcoming quarter by just how much it undercut the consensus prediction. With economic concerns still hovering over Silicon Valley, and lackluster results from Google and Microsoft dinging the market on Friday, Apple's earnings will demand the attention of the business community Monday afternoon. Investors seemed skittish on Friday, sending the company's stock down almost 4 percent, against a 1.3 percent drop on the Nasdaq. Before the numbers arrive, let's review the third quarter as experienced by the three legs of Apple's money machine: the Mac, the iPhone, and the iPod. Apple should report a strong quarter of Mac sales despite just one product launch, a speed bump to the iMac. Apple Mac attack We already know that Mac shipments increased by 38 percent in the U.S. during the last quarter, courtesy of IDC. That's strong growth without any sort of real catalyst for Mac sales other than a speed bump for the iMac product line. The second quarter of the calendar year--Apple's third fiscal quarter--is usually the slowest time of the year for the PC industry before the back-to-school and holiday shopping seasons take hold in the second half of the year. Gene Munster of Piper Jaffray expects Apple to announce Mac shipments of 2.35 million units, which would be a 33 percent bump in Mac shipments compared with last year. Shaw Wu of American Technology Research is even more optimistic, believing that Apple shipped 2.5 million Macs during the quarter. Wrong number Contrast that with the iPhone, which seems to get all the attention but will probably contribute just 700,000 units to Apple's haul during the past quarter. The company has admitted that it underestimated demand for the product during the quarter, forcing it to go about six weeks without selling a single iPhone. The financial community doesn't seem all that worried about the fact that iPhone shipments would have declined so precipitously from the 1.7 million shipments Apple recorded in its second quarter. That's partly because even at those levels, each iPhone shipment adds relatively little revenue to Apple's results in a given quarter since iPhone revenue is recognized over a 24-month period; Apple only recorded $378 million in iPhone-related revenue during its second quarter. Steady beat The iPod continues to be a large business for Apple, even if it's no longer growing at the pace it once did. The Wall Street guestimates seem to put iPod shipments for Apple's third quarter at around 10.5 million units, which would be a decline from the company's second quarter and roughly flat with last year's third-quarter totals. iPod revenue growth, however, is the metric to watch in this category. Apple has been trying to promote the iPod Touch as the future of its iPod lineup. Even if unit shipments are flat, revenue growth would imply that iPod buyers are moving on up the price curve in line with Apple's plan. As I thought coming off Apple's last earnings conference call, the company had a solid--if not spectacular--quarter, gaining share and making money even with no major launches spurring adoption. With few surprises anticipated, expect most of the question-and-answer session between Apple executives and financial analysts to focus on the upcoming quarter. Long lines stretch away from the San Francisco Apple store as people wait to buy the iPhone 3G. Tom Krazit/CNET News Apple has already announced that it sold 1 million iPhone 3Gs in the first weekend the device went on sale around the globe, but expect analysts to poke around that number for more details on where the phones were sold, and how many were sold at Apple stores versus carrier stores. It will also be interesting if Apple finally acknowledges the widespread server problems that tainted the iPhone 3G launch, and whether that had an impact on the early days of the iPhone 3G. iPhone supply is also likely to be a hot topic, with reports of lines continuing to plague Apple stores and outages at AT&T stores. Apple has proven it can manage a large, complicated supply chain with the Mac and the iPod, but has had problems with its supply chain during the first year of the iPhone: albeit the good kind. Apple faced some iPhone shortages after a smooth launch in June 2007; it imposed purchase limits on iPhones later that year to make sure it would have enough to go around during the holiday season; and it ran out of iPhones midway through May. Some cynics might think this is all a ploy to drive up demand, but it would be an expensive ploy: I suspect Apple and its investors would much rather see iPhone sales flowing uninterrupted. Just ask Nintendo. Apple isn't exactly a bellwether for the tech industry, but it has a pretty good hold on the consumer technology zeitgeist at the moment. Monday's numbers present one of the four opportunities a year to see Apple's report card and check whether that hold continued for another quarter. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: What iPhone? Apple earnings (still) about the Mac Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.