https://www.cnet.com/news/nest-now-makes-it-easier-than-ever-to-share-video-clips/
Nest now makes it easier than ever to share video clips - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Nest now makes it easier than ever to share video clips Wanna share that video clip fast? Now you can with Nest's latest software update. Megan Wollerton November 17, 2016 10:27 AM PST Enlarge Image Now you can share Nest Cam Indoor or Outdoor video clips straight from the app. Tyler Lizenby/CNET Nest, the startup-turned-Google/Alphabet-brand dedicated to all things smart home has today released a software update with a promising new feature. All cameras, all the time Nest's hardy outdoor camera watches over your roost Don't get rid of your Dropcam just yet Delve into DIY security with these 35 connected cameras Now in the video feed, Nest Cam Indoor and Nest Cam Outdoor customers should be able to see a small clip icon just under the right side of the live stream. When you click it, it will make an instant video clip. You can also hold down the clip icon to control the length of the video. From there, a screen will automatically pop up and prompt you to either save that clip of your dog eating your sock to your phone's photo and video storage or to share the link directly with family and friends. Unfortunately, this feature is limited to Nest Aware subscribers -- that's Nest's month-to-month fee-based continuous video recording service that starts at $10 per month for 10 days of video history. Not sure if this applies to you? Learn more here. Enlarge Image I tested this out myself and it worked well. Screenshots by CNET I just tested this out on a Nest Cam Indoor installed at the CNET Smart Home and it worked exactly as described (see the screenshots to the right). I made sure my Nest app was up-to-date, opened it up, and the clip icon was right there. I pressed it and it made a 30-second clip of my co-workers Dave Priest and Chris Monroe working in the basement. The Nest app then let me chose between saving the clip to my phone or sending a link. I opted to send the clip directly to Dave and Chris. In addition to instant clips for Nest Aware subscribers, folks with iPhones will now see a picture accompany their motion and sound alerts; the Android app already has this feature. Android TV and Apple TV users can view their Nest Cam feed via new apps starting today, too. Now playing: Watch this: Step outside: Nest's latest camera combats the elements 1:47 Comments Smart Home Security Google Alphabet Inc. Notification on Notification off Nest Close Discuss: Nest now makes it easier than ever to share video clips Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.