https://www.cnet.com/news/giving-apples-passbook-a-real-world-spin/
Giving Apple's Passbook a real-world spin - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Giving Apple's Passbook a real-world spin To test the company's new digital wallet, we head to a Major League Baseball game where the Passbook ticketing system is in place. Josh Lowensohn September 19, 2012 6:50 PM PDT The SF Giants ticketing system now works with Apple's Passbook. James Martin/CNET SAN FRANCISCO -- Does Passbook, Apple's new digital wallet, live up to its lofty expectations? With the first batch of companies just rolling out integration with the feature, we're getting the first taste of just how well it works in the wild. Tonight that's a baseball game here at AT&T Park, where the San Francisco Giants face off against the Colorado Rockies, a game we got into using Apple's newly released wallet technology. Related stories iOS 6 Passbook vs. Google Wallet Apple demos Passbook, a ticket, coupon organizer for iOS 6 No NFC for you, iPhone 5. Here's Apple's explanation Passbook, which went out today inside of iOS 6, is a new application from Apple designed to store membership cards, tickets, coupons, and boarding passes -- a bit like a digital wallet. As an added feature, Passbook does a few things paper and plastic can't, like alert you to changes, and pop up to be readily accessed based on your location. For something like a baseball game, all this means is that you don't need to worry about keeping track of a ticket -- just your phone. In practice, this involved me simply clicking an "add to Passbook" link from the ticket confirmation page that was sent to my e-mail inbox. Unlike near-field communications (NFC), a technology that involves location-aware sensors and has become a staple on Android devices, Passbook relies on the places you're at to scan your iPhone's screen. At the game this evening, the security that let us in scanned my iPhone just like they would a normal ticket, and we moved on through. A Passbook ticket. James Martin/CNET The Giants are one of four teams in the league to make use of Passbook, along with the Boston Red Sox, Kansas City Royals, and New York Mets. The Giants were already doing digital ticketing as part of a pilot with ticket seller StubHub. Other companies with launch day Passbook integration include make-up retail store Sephora, StubHub, Fandango, and others. As it turns out, the process here wasn't entirely paperless. In order to give Passbook users some sort of proof of purchase, the stadium prints out a paper receipt that you need to hold on to. This is also in place to give those who might have a ticket with extra money on it for buying snacks a way to pay for those things later on in their stay. The stadium also requires those with higher level tickets, to somewhere like the suite levels, to carry an extra paper ticket. But again, this is just the start. Comments iOS 6 Apple Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Giving Apple's Passbook a real-world spin Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.