https://www.cnet.com/news/like-airpods-but-with-noise-canceling-the-surprising-ausounds-headphones/
Like AirPods, but with noise canceling: The surprising Ausounds headphones - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Like AirPods, but with noise canceling: The surprising Ausounds headphones The new AU-Stream ANC earphones from startup Ausounds feature active noise-canceling in an AirPods-like design for $150. David Carnoy August 28, 2019 4:22 AM PDT Enlarge Image The Ausounds AU-Stream ANC. Sarah Tew/CNET Remember all those rumors last year about next-generation AirPods that might feature active noise canceling? Well, those AirPods haven't materialized yet but now Ausounds, a startup, has launched a new set of true wireless earbuds -- the AU-Stream ANC -- that have the same "stick" design as the AirPods and feature active noise-canceling. They're on sale now for $150 (£123, $AU 222) and they're surprisingly good if you get the right fit. I've been using an early review sample for a few days and they're similar in style to a lot of the so-called AirPods knock-offs, but have a little more of a premium look and feel. They feature 13mm drivers, Bluetooth 5.0 connectivity, 5 hours of battery life with an additional 15 hours from the case and water-resistance (IPX5 certified). They also offer USB-C charging -- that's somewhat rare to find at this price point. Read: Best true wireless earbuds of 2019 Enlarge Image Similar look to the AirPods but they come in black. Sarah Tew/CNET Until now, the only true wireless earphones to offer active noise cancellation have come from Sony -- the latest and greatest being the recently released WF-1000XM3, which cost $230. The AU-Stream ANC -- no, that isn't the greatest name for a product -- is slightly bigger than such models as the Anker Soundcore Liberty Air. They won't fit everybody's ears equally well (and they might not fit some ears at all). None of the company's ear tips allowed me to get a super-tight seal, but a set of XL tips I had from another pair of headphones worked and the earphones stayed in my ears comfortably and securely (I could run with them). That tight seal is crucial not only for sound quality but the active noise-canceling doesn't work effectively without it. Sound-wise the AU-Stream ANC is on par with the Sony WF-1000XM3. It doesn't sound quite as detailed or as open -- and the bass isn't quite as well-defined. But it's a very decent-sounding true wireless headphone with some good kick in the low end. And it does sound better than the AirPods. Ausounds AU-Stream ANC Earbuds 11 Photos The noise-canceling is pretty decent, too. Unlike the AirPods, which have an open design that lets a lot ambient sound in, these have a noise-isolating design that passively seals out a decent amount of sound. However, the noise canceling definitely helped when I was in the New York City subway to tamp down the noise levels. It doesn't completely eliminate sounds and voices around you, but it does muffle them to a significant degree. There's is no app for customizing the noise canceling or sound settings, but you can turn noise canceling on and off with a long press on either earbud (yes, they have touch controls). Read: Best cheap true wireless earphones of 2019 These aren't as good as the AirPods for making calls. People said they could hear me OK -- and I could hear them -- but they do pick up a fair amount of ambient noise. In other words, they're decent for making calls in quieter environments but not great outdoors in noisier spots. It's also worth noting that when it's windy, you can hear the wind hitting them (they're not aerodynamic) and the noise canceling can't do anything about reducing that sound. The case looks a little like the AirPods' case but is probably about 30% bigger. Still, it'll fit in most pockets without showing too much of a bulge. I also liked how the earphones automatically turned on and resumed playing my music when I pulled them out of their case. I only encountered the occasional Bluetooth hiccup -- generally, the connection was solid. I'm going to play around with them for a couple of more weeks to make sure they keep working reliably before posting my final review, but my initial impressions are good. The AU-Stream ANC seems like an auspicious start for Ausounds, which has other headphones in the pipeline. Comments Mobile Accessories Headphones Sony Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Like AirPods, but with noise canceling: The surprising Ausounds headphones Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.