https://www.cnet.com/news/apple-well-fix-iphone-tracking-bug/
Apple: We'll fix iPhone tracking 'bug' - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Apple: We'll fix iPhone tracking 'bug' The iPhone maker breaks its silence and says an iOS update coming soon will address a location-tracking furor involving a "crowd-sourced Wi-Fi hotspot and cell tower database." Marguerite Reardon April 27, 2011 6:24 AM PDT Apple has finally broken its silence on the iPhone tracking controversy. The company explains in an FAQ, posted on its Web site this morning, that it is not stalking its iPhone customers, but is instead trying to get more accurate location information. It also admits that there is a bug in the software that is making the iPhone store too much information. Last week, researchers discovered that the iPhone has been logging and storing location information on users for the past year. The information is stored in an unencrypted file on the iPhone and also is backed up in an unencrypted form on computers running iTunes. The data is also sent to Apple. The fact that Apple has been storing location information on consumer devices--unencrypted and without a customers' permission--has caused an uproar in the privacy community. For a week, Apple has refused to comment on the situation. Now it's explaining its side of the story. In the FAQ, Apple says that it is not tracking users' whereabouts. Instead it said it is logging the locations of Wi-Fi hot spots and cell phone towers that are close to the iPhone and is maintaining a database in an attempt to improve location-based services. Apple said that it cannot track individual users with the location information that is sent to the company because it is sent to Apple in an anonymous and encrypted form. "Apple is not tracking the location of your iPhone. Apple has never done so and has no plans to ever do so," the FAQ says. Related links • AG wants answers on tracking from Apple • FAQ: Your iPhone's watching you. Should you care? • How police have obtained iPhone, iPad tracking logs But the company did admit that it may be storing too much information about users' location. And it said it will soon fix this in a software release. "The reason the iPhone stores so much data is a bug we uncovered and plan to fix shortly," the FAQ says. "We don't think the iPhone needs to store more than seven days of this data." Apple also admitted that users should be able to turn off the location logging feature on their phone when they disable location services on it. But a bug in the software has also prevented this, the company said. Iin addition to collecting information about Wi-Fi hot spots and cell towers, Apple said it has been "collecting anonymous traffic data to build a crowd-sourced traffic database with the goal of providing iPhone users an improved traffic service in the next couple of years." And Apple admitted as well that it is providing some anonymous information about users to third-party developers to help debug their apps--and may also provide information to marketers. "Our iAds advertising system can use location as a factor in targeting ads. Location is not shared with any third party or ad unless the user explicitly approves giving the current location to the current ad (for example, to request the ad locate the Target store nearest them)," the company says. Apple said it plans to release a software update in the next few weeks that will reduce the size of the crowd-sourced Wi-Fi hot spot and cell tower database cached on the iPhone, cease backing up this cache, and delete this cache entirely when the Location Services feature is turned off. And finally, Apple says that in the next major iOS software release, the cache will also be encrypted on the iPhone. Comments Tech Industry Anonymous Encryption Privacy Apple Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Apple: We'll fix iPhone tracking 'bug' Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.