https://www.cnet.com/news/lenovo-chosen-as-designer-of-08-olympic-torch/
Lenovo chosen as designer of '08 Olympic torch - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Lenovo chosen as designer of '08 Olympic torch Chinese PC manufacturer used elements of modern design, local culture to create torch. Caroline McCarthy April 26, 2007 8:13 AM PDT Lenovo Can a computer company design a torch? Yes, according to the committee behind the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing, which has selected a design by China-headquartered PC manufacturer Lenovo as the model for the games' iconic torch. According to a press conference on Thursday morning hosted by Lenovo, which is also a worldwide sponsor of the Olympics, the design was chosen from over 300 contenders. According to Lenovo, the torch design took ten months and was the product of more than 30 engineers and design specialists. The end result, called "The Cloud of Promise," incorporates elements of both modern design and traditional Chinese culture. It's modeled off the design of a scroll--remember, China is the birthplace of paper as we know it--and is decorated with red lacquer and cloud motifs derived from Chinese art traditions. Lenovo's representatives stressed that like its PCs, the Olympic torch has been designed with both aesthetics and functionality in mind. The streamlined, 28-inch-long torch is a light load, weighing only 2.2 pounds. The company is touting it as the most technologically-advanced Olympic torch yet. Keeping in tradition with the Olympic Games since 1936, the torch will be lit in Olympia, Greece. The 2008 version will then travel through 20 countries beginning in March, followed by Taiwan, Macao, and Hong Kong before reaching China. Lenovo has planned to incorporate its Olympic sponsorship and torch design connections into its marketing and publicity campaigns, and hinted at the press conference that it's possible that the "Cloud of Promise" design may be used in a PC design sometime in the near future. Despite the fact that it was designed by a high-tech company, the torch will still be lit by plain old fire. A question at the press conference inquired, "Are there any semiconductors inside?" and was met with some good-natured laughter. Comments Gadgets Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Lenovo chosen as designer of '08 Olympic torch Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.