https://www.cnet.com/news/real-life-the-bt-home-hub-baby-monitor/
Real Life: The BT Home Hub baby monitor - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Real Life: The BT Home Hub baby monitor BT promises easy setup, fast connections and an unobtrusive, Apple-y piece of kit with its Home Hub. Well, two out of three ain't bad. Crave's Nick Hide just got one... Nick Hide August 15, 2006 2:09 AM PDT BT's politically correct TV ads (boyfriend circumvents step-family pitfalls with the help of communications technology) make its Home Hub wireless router look incredibly desirable. After all, it's not every free router that persuades a 20-something to buy a four-bedroom house. But when the pimply estate agent suggests the fourth bedroom would make a lovely nursery, he doesn't point out that the Home Hub, with its curvy Mothercare face and perky grey aerial, looks like a giant baby intercom. I recently signed up to BT Broadband. When my girlfriend saw the Home Hub, she wondered whether I planned to use the spare room to hatch a baby dinosaur. So it now resides behind the television. Although BT has utterly failed to make it look like something from Apple, the Home Hub is a quality piece of kit. Broadband modem and wireless router in one, it was quick and easy to set up, which had been a concern -- wireless isn't usually the easiest thing to get going. To set up the service, I used BT's Web site, entered my details and gave them a suitable delivery date for the package, which was only a couple of weeks away (I didn't already have a broadband ISP). The white box duly arrived this weekend, full of easy-to-follow documentation and plenty of cables and switcher boxes. I picked the £15-a-month scheme (rising to £23 after three months), which includes the Home Hub for free, but not the Hub Phone. For this I get 'up to 8Mb' broadband, with a 6GB cap and a Norton security package. The Home Hub itself was easy to set up -- you simply plug it in to the phone line, wait an hour while it sorts out your optimum settings and install the accompanying software on your PC or Mac. Things only became complicated when I downloaded the free antivirus software from the BT site. It clashed horribly with the pre-installed security software on my PC, which ground to a halt while the two programs played tug of war with the CPU. After several extremely slow restarts I managed to disable the preinstalled software, at which point everything speeded up again, like a rollercoaster cresting a particularly big hill. So far, so good. The wireless network is secure (unlike those of my neighbours, according to my wireless connection finder), and achieves 54Mbps -- far more than the broadband can use. And now I have the Internet, I can look for a dinosaur egg and some used incubation equipment on eBay. -Nick Hide Comments Notification on Notification off Computer Accessories Close Discuss: Real Life: The BT Home Hub baby monitor Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.