https://www.cnet.com/news/at-t-responds-to-justice-department-lawsuit/
AT&T responds to Justice Department lawsuit - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In AT&T responds to Justice Department lawsuit The telecom giant says the Justice Department fails to grasp the benefits of the deal and is wrong in its characterization of competition in the industry. Roger Cheng September 9, 2011 1:15 PM PDT AT&T filed a response to the Justice Department's lawsuit to block the merger with T-Mobile USA today, claiming the agency fails to understand the benefits of the deal and isn't painting an accurate picture of the competitive environment. The Dallas telecommunications giant largely brought up the same arguments it first made to regulators: that the deal would allow AT&T to gain access to more spectrum, let the company provide wireless broadband access to more people, and that it would provide more competition in an already competitive industry. The filing also contains specific responses denying multiple claims made in the Justice Department lawsuit. "The Department of Justice's complaint fails to come to grips with the significant efficiencies this transaction will generate," AT&T said in its filing. "(The) complaint similarly fails to depict accurately the state of competition in mobile telecommunications today, the dynamic nature of the wireless industry, or the pro-competitive and pro-consumer impact of this transaction." AT&T also took exception to the use of the term, the "Big Four," since there it argues there are usually more than four competitors in each market. The term, however, is often used in the industry to refer to the four nationwide carriers. Consumer advocate groups and smaller companies led by Sprint Nextel have used this argument in their push to stop the deal. AT&T also argued that blocking the deal will do little to help T-Mobile, which continues to lose customers and doesn't have the necessary spectrum to move to a 4G network. It said that competition would actually be hurt if T-Mobile were left alone because parent Deutsche Telekom has said it wouldn't invest in the business. The company added that T-Mobile's "disruptive pricing" plans aren't affecting AT&T now. "Blocking this transaction will not help T-Mobile or its customers," AT&T said in its filing. AT&T has long sought to position the merger review to look at competition on a market-by-market basis, where it claims multiple competitors exists. But the Justice Department has opted to look at competition in a national level, with one out of the four national players getting swallowed up by another. AT&T, however, also expressed its willingness to work with the agency. "At the same time, we have been and remain interested in a solution that addresses the DOJ's issues with the T-Mobile merger," the company said in an e-mailed statement alongside the filing. The deal was put in serious jeopardy after the DOJ surprisingly filed its suit last week. While not dead, most analysts believe there's a significantly lower chance that AT&T will be able to push the deal through. The telecom giant has been left scrambling to find a compromise, including the promise to bring back 5,000 outsourced call center jobs and sell off significant chunks of T-Mobile as concessions. AT&T and the Justice Department are scheduled to present their case to Judge Ellen Huvelle during a hearing that starts on September 21 AT&T also said in the statement that it remains confident that it would close the deal. Comments AT&T T-Mobile Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: AT&T responds to Justice Department lawsuit Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.