https://www.cnet.com/news/sonic-the-hedgehog-spoiler-free-review-a-visual-delight-you-will-quickly-forget/
Sonic the Hedgehog movie review: A visual delight you'll fast forget - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Sonic the Hedgehog movie review: A visual delight you'll fast forget Streaming early, the Sega icon's cinematic debut is at its best when Sonic goes quick -- but the script doesn't always keep up. Sean Keane March 27, 2020 7:35 AM PDT Listen - 02:57 Sonic the Hedgehog is a charmer, even if the script doesn't quite match up to Ben Schwartz's excellent performance. Paramount Pictures It's been 29 years since Sonic the Hedgehog sprinted into our lives in his first Sega Genesis adventure, dazzling gamers with his blistering speed and colorful video game world. Turns out those are the best parts of his live-action cinematic debut too. Following its theatrical release, Sonic is one of several recent blockbusters coming to streaming earlier than expected due to the coronavirus pandemic. You can buy Sonic the Hedgehog starting March 31. True to its hero's speedy ways, director Jeff Fowler's movie blasts through Sonic's origin very quickly indeed. The anthropomorphic blue hedgehog (played with charming breathlessness by Ben Schwartz) flees his home world and comes to Earth because nameless bad guys are hunting him for his powers. He lives in hiding near Green Hills, Montana, but gets lonely as the years pass. Being Dr. Robotnik's goon ain't easy, but Agent Stone offers a nice contrast to his boss. Paramount Pictures After a goof brings Sonic to the government's attention, he seeks help from local cop Tom Wachowski (James Marsden) as he's hunted by Dr. Robotnik. Jim Carrey plays the villainous scientist, using the comic physicality that made him famous in the '90s to turn Sonic's nemesis into an evil version of Ace Ventura. His manic routine consistently entertains, and he's wisely paired with straight man Agent Stone (Lee Majdoub) in most of his scenes. That energy doesn't carry through to the rest of the movie, however, where a shallow script lets it down. Many of the jokes fall flat as screenwriters Josh Miller and Patrick Casey lean a little too heavily on pop culture references that'll date quickly -- it lacks the hints of darkness that gave last year's Pokemon: Detective Pikachu a broader appeal. The 41 worst video game movies of all time, ranked 42 Photos Thankfully, Marsden has oodles of charm, and his relationships with Sonic and wife Maddie (Tika Sumpter) give the adventure a solid emotional core. (Disclosure: CNET is owned by ViacomCBS, which also owns Sonic distributor Paramount.) The movie is also a visual treat, with CGI Sonic fitting beautifully into the real world. His initial design was revised following some pretty intense fan backlash; his new look is much closer to the classic games and it's a vast improvement. The same fans who've been appeased by Sonic's new appearance will also delight in the subtle references to the games and cartoon. Tom Wachowski and Sonic's road trip brings them across the western US. Paramount Pictures His super-speed is a whole lot of fun to watch too. A scene in which the camera can't keep up with Sonic as he darts around is delightful, and leads to a spectacular final battle. We also get a couple of scenes in which time slows to a crawl to reflect Sonic's speed like the standout moments with Quicksilver in X-Men: Days of Future Past and Apocalypse -- this movie revels in the comedy of such powers even more than they did. Now playing: Watch this: Sonic the Hedgehog: Jim Carrey is jealous of Dr. Robotnik's... 1:33 However, Robotnik's drones are a bit too sleek, realistic and boring. Their aesthetic fails to live up to their master's colorful personality, but gives Sonic a chance to make a fun comparison to Amazon delivery drones at one point. It's a shame Sonic the Hedgehog's forgettable jokes don't live up to its visuals, but it's a decent cinematic start for the blue blur and leaves me with the hope of an even more adventurous sequel down the line. And if you're an old-school gamer who's still trapped in the Sega vs. Nintendo console wars of the '90s, rest assured that Sonic's first movie is a whole lot better than Mario's. Our most anticipated movies of 2020 55 Photos Originally published Feb. 12. Comments TV and Movies Movie Reviews Notification on Notification off Video Games Close Discuss: Sonic the Hedgehog movie review: A visual delight you'll fast forget Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.