https://www.cnet.com/news/at-t-to-prorate-cancellation-fees/
AT&T to prorate cancellation fees - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In AT&T to prorate cancellation fees AT&T is trying to be more customer-friendly by prorating cancellation fees and doing away with automatic contract extensions for its wireless service. Marguerite Reardon October 16, 2007 2:20 PM PDT AT&T wants to be more consumer-friendly. On Tuesday the company said that it will prorate the $175 early termination fee it charges wireless customers who cancel their contracts based upon how much time they have left in their contract. This means that someone who cancels their service 23 months into a two-year contract will pay considerably less than someone who cancels the service after only six months. (All new customers are able to cancel their service with no penalty for up to 30 days after service begins.) The company also said it will no longer require customers to extend their contracts if they make changes to their plans. AT&T's current policy automatically extends contracts for customers who change their service plans more than halfway through their contract term. The prorated termination rates are still being worked out, but the new policy for extending contracts will take effect in November, the company said. AT&T spokesman Mark Siegel said the changes were prompted by customer demand. "We've been listening to customers," he said. "And they all tell us that they don't like one-size-fits all policies when it comes to early termination fees or service contracts." These policy changes come at a time when Congress is looking more closely at the industry's consumer practices. After the much hyped launch of Apple's iPhone, which is exclusively available through AT&T, some Congressional leaders expressed concern that the industry has been too restrictive in its policies. The issue has also been highlighted by debates raging in Washington over how the Federal Communications Commission should auction a valuable sliver of wireless spectrum in the upcoming 700Mhz auction. Last month, Sens. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.) introduced a bill that would give subscribers greater freedom to leave cell phone carrier contracts before the agreements expire. On Wednesday a Senate subcommittee will hold hearings regarding consumer practices of the wireless industry, where the issues of early termination fees and automatic contract extensions will surely be discussed. Siegel admitted that governmental pressure may have played a part in rethinking the company's policies. "Our main focus is responding to our customers," he said. "But that's not to say there aren't other forces at work." Whatever is getting AT&T to lighten its policies doesn't matter to me. I'm just glad that the company is making changes. I've always felt it was anticompetitive and unfair to lock customers into lengthy service contracts. And it made even less sense to me that cell phone operators could penalize good customers by extending their contracts because they upgraded their service plan. I mean does it really make sense that my two-year contract starts over because I am willing to pay more per month for my service? I don't think so. Sure, mobile operators offer consumers subsidized handsets. I understand that they have to recover that cost. But is it really necessary to force someone who has had the service for almost two years to pay the same termination fee as someone who is canceling the service after only a couple of months? In a free market, consumers must be able to have choice. And contracts with stiff penalties eliminate this choice and stifle competition. So good work, AT&T. This is definitely a step in the right direction. Once operators truly compete on their own merits instead of relying on contracts to keep customers hostage on their networks, consumers will see huge improvements in price, quality of service, and the availability of new and cool handsets. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: AT&T to prorate cancellation fees Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.