https://www.cnet.com/news/clean-phone-happy-phone-get-a-uv-sanitizer-for-60-or-less/
Clean phone, happy phone: Get a UV sanitizer for $60 or less - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Clean phone, happy phone: Get a UV sanitizer for $60 or less Prices are going up on these germ-killing gadgets. Here are three that promise to eradicate dangerous microbes. Rick Broida March 4, 2020 6:04 AM PST Die, germs, die! A UV-light case promises quick elimination of disease-carrying microbes. HoMedics For the most up-to-date news and information about the coronavirus pandemic, visit the WHO website. You've probably heard this before: "Your phone is crawling with germs! It's 10 times dirtier than a toilet seat!" Gross, right? Until recently I mostly shrugged off those claims -- if my phone is such a petri dish, how come I'm not getting sick all the time? -- but all the coronavirus craziness is giving me pause. Maybe it's time to err on the side of "better safe than sorry." What's the best way to do that? For starters, read CNET's story on how to clean your phone -- which includes important info on what not to do. Beyond that, consider murdering those microbes with UV light. There are a number of products designed to do exactly that, most notably the PhoneSoap, which appeared on Shark Tank a few years back. However, the least expensive model, the PhoneSoap 3, sells for $79.95 and won't ship until April 1. There are less expensive alternatives, though I should note that prices are on the rise and availability is decreasing. One product I looked at was $39 last night -- and $53 when I woke up this morning. Others are showing in-stock dates of up to a week from now. Read more: Your phone's screen is pretty gross. Here's how to clean it These devices have been likened to little tanning beds. You put your phone inside, press a button and wait 5-10 minutes while a UV light "bath" kills all the germs. (Many of them are large enough to accommodate other items as well: earbuds, eyeglasses, toothbrushes, keys and so on.) Why not just fill a little spray-bottle with equal parts distilled water and 70% isopropyl alcohol, spritz it at a lint-free cleaning cloth and wipe down your phone? You absolutely could do that; it's a cheap solution (literally) that, according to one amateur test, can be highly effective. It's also more work and messier, and you run the risk of liquid getting into a place it doesn't belong. If you like the UV idea better, here are three PhoneSoap alternatives priced less. Update (3/5/20): All three of these products are now sold out. Coronavirus updates FDA warns at-home coronavirus tests are unauthorized and fraudulent Zoom has been a chaotic beacon of light during the coronavirus lockdown FBI says beware of stimulus-package scams Snowden says government surveillance amid COVID-19 could be long lasting HoMedics UV-Clean Phone Sanitizer: $59.99 Save $20 and get $10 in Kohl's cash Want a sanitizer you can take with you? The HoMedics product is portable, promising up to 70 uses per charge. It's also fast, able to zap 99.9% of all germs in just 30 seconds, according to HoMedics. However, its pop-up phone bed has only "upper" UV lighting; after you run it once, you have to flip your phone over and run it again. The Kohl's sale price (which is $20 below Amazon's) includes $10 in Kohl's Cash, which must be used between March 9-22. Shipping costs extra, however, unless your pad your cart to at least $75. $60 at Kohl's Lecone UV Cell Phone Sanitizer: $57.99 It's also a Qi wireless charger and... essential oil diffuser? Lecone Normally selling for $40, Lecone's sanitizer just jumped in price -- no doubt due to increasing demand. It's large enough to accommodate phones up to 6.2 inches (not necessarily including a bulky case), and it has a Qi charging pad embedded in its lid -- meaning when your phone isn't inside getting clean, it can sit on top getting charged. Like a couple other off-brand sanitizers I've seen, this one is also an essential-oil diffuser for some reason. So if you want your phone to smell like sandalwood, lavender or whatever when it comes out, this is the product for you. $58 at Amazon Phone UV Clean Machine: $41.99 The cheapest cleaner -- for now Salmue This thing was $36 when I started writing this story; it's now showing $41.99. And it's about as basic as they come, a simple plastic coffin with UV lights embedded in the lid and base. There's not even a groove for your phone's charging cord, should you wish to top it off while cleaning. (Thankfully, the automated cleaning function takes just six minutes.) Update: This model is now sold out. $42 at Amazon If you have any experience with these products or PhoneSoap, or thoughts on other ways to keep your phone germ-free, please share them in the comments! Now playing: Watch this: How to clean your phone (and things to never do) 2:34 THE CHEAPSKATE NEWSLETTER All the latest deals delivered to your inbox. It's FREE! CNET's Cheapskate scours the web for great deals on tech products and much more. For the latest deals and updates, follow the Cheapskate on Facebook and Twitter. Find more great buys on the CNET Deals page and check out our CNET Coupons page for the latest promo codes from Best Buy, Walmart, Amazon and more. Questions about the Cheapskate blog? Find the answers on our FAQ page. The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments The Cheapskate Health and Wellness Mobile Accessories Phones Mobile Coronavirus Amazon Notification on Notification off Deals Close Discuss: Clean phone, happy phone: Get a UV sanitizer for $60 or less Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.