https://www.cnet.com/news/microsoft-vista-late-but-why/
Microsoft Vista late -- but why? - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Microsoft Vista late -- but why? Microsoft says its successor to XP, Windows Vista, won't reach consumers until January 2007 -- but why is it late? We take a brief look at the history of its development Rory Reid March 22, 2006 4:46 AM PST When Microsoft announced it would be delaying its Windows Vista operating system until January 2007, we weren't sure whether to react with anger, surprise or indifference based on its extensive catalogue of launch indiscretions. By the time Vista is released (assuming it stays on its new schedule) it will have been in development for nigh on seven years. But what's the story behind the delays? Is Microsoft taking time to get things right; is it trying to be fashionably late; or is the whole thing a complete lateness balls-up that would make the rebuilding of Wembley Stadium look like a well-oiled machine? Okay, so it hasn't taken as long to develop as the Great Pyramid of Giza (which claims the longest development time for any human endeavour -- 20 years), but it's been a long old stretch in anyone's book. By comparison, the original version of Windows took a mere three years to complete, and even that modest delay caused much mirth. Some may applaud Microsoft for taking its time to iron out the types of kinks that have plagued XP. Others may shift the blame to manufacturers, who are said to have asked Microsoft to delay the release of Vista because they had insufficient time to test and prepare their systems. Whatever the case, it's clearly rather unfortunate for everyone involved, as neither Microsoft nor any PC manufacturers will have wanted to miss out on the lucrative Christmas period that would surely have been an enormous sales catalyst. Let's take a walk down the Vista delay memory lane: July 2001 Vista, aka Project Longhorn, is first announced prior to the launch of Windows XP. Microsoft claims it will ship in late 2003 between XP and 'Vienna' -- Longhorn's eventual successor. April 2002 Microsoft shows example videos of Longhorn in use in order to illustrate some of its key features. Dozens of fraudulent Longhorn details, screenshots and videos subsequently litter the Internet. May 2003 Microsoft reveals a roadmap for Longhorn -- said to be the most important update to the Windows product line since Windows 95. Will Poole, senior vice president of the Windows Client Division says Longhorn is a "huge, big, bet-the-company move". The final release date is set as 2005. August 2004 Longhorn development is overhauled. The OS will now be based on the Windows Server 2003 codebase. Many of its original features are dropped and replaced with those intended for Vienna. Winter 2004 Many Longhorn developers are pulled off the project to focus on the development of Windows XP Service Pack 2. Development suffers as a result. July 2005 Microsoft announces Longhorn's official name. It almost chooses 'Windows Seven' as the official name, but opts for 'Windows Vista' due to the greater emotional punch. September 2005 Microsoft begins releasing regular Community Technical Previews (CTP) to beta testers. February 2006 Vista deemed 'code-complete' with release of build 5308 CTP. The remainder of the work is said to focus on improving stability, performance, compatibility and documentation. March 2006 Vista delayed until 'January 2007'. World reels in shock. -RR Comments Notification on Notification off Desktops Close Discuss: Microsoft Vista late -- but why? Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.