https://www.cnet.com/news/photos-hands-on-with-the-htc-touch-diamond/
Photos: Hands-on with the HTC Touch Diamond - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Photos: Hands-on with the HTC Touch Diamond A few weeks ago HTC sent us a seriously mysterious press invitation. Today we found out what on Earth was going on -- you'd better read on Andrew Lim June 26, 2008 4:23 AM PDT Is it a Google Phone? Is it the 3G iPhone? Is it something MacGyver put together using a matchbox and his pants? Nope, it's none of those, it's HTC's latest smart phone, the Touch Diamond, which aims to take a bite out of Apple's iPhone cake. We headed down to its launch today to give it a quick once over and see if this Windows Mobile phone can keep up with the competition. We even took some photos so you can have a proper gander at it -- how thoughtful we are. It's due out in June on all the major networks, so if by the end of this article you're burning to buy one, you're going to have to wait, but it won't be long and it will be available on your current network. Pricing has yet to be announced. Click on the next page to see more photos of the Diamond and HTC's new interface -- TouchFLO 3D -- which aims to make using Windows Mobile a little more thumb-friendly. Update: Read our full HTC Touch Diamond review. At only 11mm thick and weighing in at 110g, you wouldn't be foolish for thinking that there wasn't much going on inside -- but in this case you'd be wrong. The HTC Touch Diamond impressively manages to cram in HSDPA (3.5G), Wi-Fi and GPS, among other features. It took us a while to figure out why exactly the HTC Touch Diamond was so-called, until we spun it over and checked out the back. Similar to Nokia's Prism range, a series of triangles make up the back of the casing. Triangular casing aside, you'll see there's a 3.2-megapixel camera at the top. The camera has auto-focus, but unfortunately lacks an LED photo light or xenon flash, so don't expect great shots in low light. Similar to an iPod's Click Wheel, the navigation wheel at the bottom of the Diamond allows you to scroll through content quickly. It works well and complements the touchscreen. The rest of the navigation keys are mechanical -- you have to click them to make something happen. Following on from the HTC Touch's TouchFLO interface, which allowed users to access certain apps using only their thumb, HTC has launched TouchFLO 3D on the Diamond. This new and improved interface displays a selection of icons at the bottom of the screen that you can navigate by swiping your finger left or right. Instead of the traditional Windows Mobile interface, all of the major sections have been tweaked. Contacts, for example, are displayed using photos (pictured) and you can flick up and down to search for who you'd like to call. Text messages have also been tweaked, displaying each message as if it was hovering in space. If you're wondering what texting is like, fear not, because HTC has included a brand-new on-screen keyboard. It's more finger-friendly than many Windows Mobile keypads we've used. The email interface has also had a little HTC redesign dust sprinkled on -- it lets you preview messages as if they were popping out of an actual envelope. We're not convinced this is terribly practical, but it does look more attractive than just a list of emails. Once you've selected an email you'd like to read properly, you're taken through to the standard Windows Mobile interface. According to HTC, this has been adjusted so that it's more spaced-out, making it easier to press with your finger. We're sceptical, and hope to test it out further during our full review. According to this geezer we know in the pub, it's not money that makes the world go around anymore, it's music (and those hand-cut crisps, but that's a different blog post). Mobile phone behemoths are prepping their handsets with a variety of music offerings, in the hope that we'll splash out some serious cash downloading music to our phones. Enter HTC's music offering -- it looks very much like Apple's Cover Flow system and works in a similar way too, letting you flick through your music as if you were flicking through CD covers. That's not a Web browser, this is a Web browser. Adios Internet Explorer and hello customised version of Opera Mobile 9.5. It renders full Web pages properly and lets you navigate Web sites much more easily than those dodgy WAP browsers from back in the day. Interestingly, Microsoft also has a browser in the works for Windows Mobile 6.1, which aims to offer the same browsing experience, but because it's not ready yet HTC opted for Opera Mobile -- it's okay Microsoft, don't cry. Programs are easy to get to using this dedicated menu. You can install all kinds of cool stuff on the Diamond, including Google Maps and any other Java-based apps you can get your hands on. A YouTube app comes preinstalled on the Diamond, so you can show your mates in the pub some video of a guy sitting in the pub showing his mates a YouTube video on his HTC Diamond -- technology, bringing us closer together. And destroying the space-time continuum. Unlike the iPhone, you can watch YouTube videos almost everywhere you go, because the Diamond comes with Wi-Fi and HSDPA (3.5G). We decided we catch up with some Family Guy, which looked great on the Diamond's VGA screen. It's much sharper than the QVGA screens featured on older phones such as the HTC TyTN II. Comments Phones Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Photos: Hands-on with the HTC Touch Diamond Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.