https://www.cnet.com/news/nad-3020-vintage-hi-fi-that-still-sounds-great/
NAD 3020: Vintage hi-fi that still sounds great - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In NAD 3020: Vintage hi-fi that still sounds great You can pick up a great-sounding vintage hi-fi at a yard sale or on eBay, and put together an awesome-sounding system for a few hundred bucks. Steve Guttenberg July 16, 2011 7:05 AM PDT The NAD 3020 amplifier Tone Audio I recently bought a NAD 3020 integrated amplifier on eBay for $66. The little amp was a smash hit in 1980 and instantly put NAD on the map. While the amp made its reputation as a giant killer, it's not very big--just 16 by 3.75 by 10 inches. And the look is bare-bones basic. The sound is something else again; as soon as I fired it up I remembered why budget-minded audiophiles bought more than a half million 3020s in about three years, making it the best-selling integrated amp of all time. It was rated at just 20 watts per channel into 8 ohms, but it can deliver as much as 58 watts into 4 ohms, and 72 watts into 2 ohm speakers! I doubt any of today's receivers can handle low impedance (4 or less ohm) or difficult to drive speakers as well as the 3020 can. It was designed to sound great; today's gear is sold on features like auto-setup, GUI menus, Air Play, home networking, iPod docks, Bluetooth, HDMI switching, Dolby and DTS processing, and other goodies. Those features aren't "free," and a significant portion of today's receiver's design budget resources are directed to features, not sound quality. The Ramones' debut record from 1976 seemed like an appropriate way to get reacquainted with the 3020. The Ramones sound best turned up nice and loud, and their sound immediately plastered a big, fat smile across my face. I remembered listening to a lot of Ramones, Talking Heads ,and Television LPs when the 3020 was the new kid on the block, and those bands still sound great today. Returning to 2011 with Beyonce's "I Miss You," taken at a room-filling volume with my PSB Alpha B speakers (used pairs go for around $125) wasn't as satisfying, mostly because Beyonce's CD isn't a particularly good-sounding recording. The soundstage is flat and two-dimensional. Then again, other than Beyonce, it doesn't sound like there are too many actual instruments on the CD. The more acoustic Monsters of Folk sounded more natural. Conor Oberst's crooning vocal on "Temazcal" was gorgeous, and the bass drum hits felt remarkably solid. At this point I switched over to my Wharfedale Diamond 10.1 speakers, and the sound filled out, and Oberst's vocal had even more body and soul. The drums sounded even more defined and present. The 10.1 speaker is the best speaker I've heard for $350 a pair, and the 3020 was taking full advantage of the speaker's capabilities. Or was I just hearing the sound of a great speaker and crediting the 3020? So I swapped out the 3020 for an Audioengine N22 amp ($199), and it produced a smaller and flatter soundstage. Bass didn't reach as deep, definition went south, treble detail coarsened, and the vocals thinned out. The 30-year-old amp clobbered the N22 on every count. I also auditioned the 3020's sound with my Sennheiser HD 650 headphones. Again, the little amp proved to be an exceptional performer. There was almost a vacuum tube like warmth to the sound, but it was perfectly pure and clear. To finish up I hooked up my VPI Classic turntable to the 3020 and my records sounded wonderful. If you're just now getting into vinyl, pick up a 3020--you won't be sorry. Buying old hi-fi, or any used gear isn't without risk. Ask a lot of questions before buying used electronics, starting with: does it work? With an amp, has it recently been hooked up to speakers and played? Does it make any strange noises? Do all the inputs work? If the seller can't answer those questions, don't buy. There's a lot of awesome-sounding budget hi-fi gear from the past to choose from. The Adcom GFA-555 power amp was legendary in its time, and 20-year-old Marantz receivers are still quite nice. Rega Planar and Thorens turntables are worth checking out, and same for early Denon and Marantz CD players. It shouldn't be too hard to find cheap and cheerful Boston Acoustic A40 and Paradigm Atom speakers. The Dynaco Stereo 70 tube amplifier was another huge seller and still sounds wonderful. My friend Mike bought a NAD 1020 (the preamp version of the 3020) at a Los Angeles swap meet for $9 a few years ago. There are deals to be had. With a little effort you can put together a really nice-sounding system for a few hundred dollars. Comments The Audiophiliac Audio eBay Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: NAD 3020: Vintage hi-fi that still sounds great Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.