https://www.cnet.com/news/how-many-hours-of-sleep/
The telltale signs that you're not getting enough sleep - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In The telltale signs that you're not getting enough sleep Chances are you need more sleep: Here's how much and how to get it. Brian Bennett December 30, 2019 7:10 AM PST Leer en español Getty Images This story is part of New Year, New You, everything you need to develop healthy habits that will last all the way through 2020 and beyond. Sleep is perhaps the best thing you can do for your health and yet most of us aren't getting enough of it. Besides making you feel exhausted and desperate for your morning coffee, not getting enough sleep can have serious effects on your body and mind. But how much sleep do you really need? How do you know if you're not getting enough, and how can you more? This guide will uncover the secrets of sleep. How many hours? The recommended daily amount of sleep for adults is a minimum of 7 hours. A full 8 hours, though, is the ideal sleep duration you should get each night. Those are the guidelines set by the CDC, as well as NIH (National Institutes of Health), but everyone is different. Figure out the number of hours you personally need to be at your best, and make it a priority to hit that number. Read more: 8 products to help you stop snoring Am I getting enough hours of sleep? Most of us don't know exactly when we fall asleep each night, so it can be tricky to figure out if you're actually hitting 8 hours. The most surefire way to know if you are getting enough shut-eye is to track your sleep. There are 3 main ways to do it, and you can start tonight. These sleep gadgets are way weirder than counting sheep 16 Photos Why you need more sleep Besides feeling tired, sleep deprivation can have a major impact on your life. Here are some of the ill effects of not getting enough consistent rest. Sleepiness during the day It's 11 a.m. or maybe 2 p.m., you're dragging. You can't help from nodding off periodically throughout the day. That's not supposed to happen after a good night's sleep. Forgetfulness and poor concentration You can't recall facts and figures you should easily remember. Or perhaps you've had one two many forgetful episodes recently. For instance, you often find yourself misplacing your keys, or walking out the door without your wallet or phone. Studies indicate a link between cognitive ability and total sleep time. Irritability and anxiety People rubbing you the wrong way lately? Have you noticed that you've been more nervous or worried than usual? Our levels of irritability and anxiety can shoot up when we are starved for restful sleep. Weight gain The cumulative effects of poor sleep can also lead to weight gain, and that's for starters. Studies strongly suggest that chronic inadequate sleep results in lowered glucose tolerance. Other adverse effects include increased risk of obesity, high blood pressure, type 2 diabetes and heart disease. How to fix your sleep issues: How to get better sleep in 2020 Picking the perfect pillow The invisible reason you're not sleeping well For the best sleep, set your thermostat to this temperature How to stop waking up in the middle of the night Are smart beds the answer to a good night's rest? The best smart bed could be the one you already own Review: Beautyrest SmartMotion Base 3 and Sleeptracker Review: Winkbed with Cool Control Base Review: Sleep Number 360 Smart Bed Review: Eight Mars+ Mattress and Sleep Tracker The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments New Year, New You Sleep Sleep Tech Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: The telltale signs that you're not getting enough sleep Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.