https://www.cnet.com/news/crave-talk-iphone-equals-imuggers-dream/
Crave Talk: iPhone equals iMuggers' dream - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Crave Talk: iPhone equals iMuggers' dream The iPhone hits the UK later this year and everyone wants one. The only problem is that every thief is going to want one too -- it's probably going to be the most muggable gadget of 2008 Andrew Lim January 18, 2007 3:54 AM PST Yesterday the Metropolitan Police published their annual crime figures, showing an overall reduction in crime in London. Interestingly, however, street robberies in the capital rose by 5.9 per cent last year, a figure that Commander Simon Foy, head of the Metropolitan Police Performance Directorate, puts down to an increase in portable commodities that are easily stolen. Mobile phones and MP3 players are among the most attractive devices to muggers. In particular, Apple's iPod has been well known since its release in 2001 as a specific target for muggers, who see the white headphones as a clear sign that a person was carrying an iPod in their pocket. This brings us to Apple's latest product the iPhone, described by Steve Jobs as a revolutionary product. And he's right. The Apple iPhone will trigger a revolution in street-crime convenience. It's a three-for-one deal: not only is it a mobile phone, it's also a cutting-edge video iPod and a Wi-Fi enabled Internet browser. The Met says that people are stealing mobile phones even if they are locked, so that they can access the other features, such as the camera and games. The highly functional iPhone couldn't fit more perfectly into a mugger's dream. Imagine: you're walking down the street, you're listening to your favourite tunes on your iPhone and then you get a call. Fortunately, you don't have to do anything because the iPhone automatically cuts the music out and lets you answer. Unfortunately, a mugger clocks that you're talking to your white headphones -- unless he thinks you're mad, he'll figure out what's in your pocket. At this point in the story the revolutionary, expensive device that you love becomes a homing beacon for the mugger and the rest of the story is more Italian Job than Steve Jobs. Cue iDepression at the sad loss of your mobile phone with all your contacts (and don't forget that could include your banking details too) as well as your MP3 player with all your music, pictures and videos. One way to addres this problem is to follow our four methods for protecting your iPod. Most of these tips will apply to the iPhone, but the mobile phone functionality requires one more important tip: don't make or answer a call around strange-looking people. Which means in London you'll be mainly using it in private at home. And sometimes not even then. -AL Comments Phones Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Crave Talk: iPhone equals iMuggers' dream Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.