https://www.cnet.com/news/schiits-muscular-lyr-headphone-amplifier/
Schiit's muscular Lyr headphone amplifier - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Schiit's muscular Lyr headphone amplifier Most headphones are easy to "drive" and sound great with an iPod, but some high-end home headphones need a lot of juice to come alive. Steve Guttenberg April 8, 2012 11:01 AM PDT The Schiit Lyr Schiit I've written about Schiit's amazing headphone amps before, but their new Lyr is the company's first high-output headphone amplifier. It delivers up to 6 watts into 32 ohm headphones. If that sounds like overkill for most headphones I'd agree, but there are a few headphones that need more power to sound their best. That's where the Schiit Lyr ($449) comes into its own. When I first auditioned the Hifiman HE-6 ($1,299) full-size headphones last year I wasn't impressed. The sound was lackluster and I couldn't get them to play loud with any of my headphone amps, the HE-6 was too hard to drive. Schiit's first amp, the $249 Asgard sounded great with lots of other headphones, but it couldn't get the HE-6 headphones to strut their stuff. The new Lyr looks similar to the Asgard, but it has two tubes sticking out of the top panel. The two amps insides are quite different, and so is the sound. To say the Lyr brought the HE-6 to life would be an understatement, the combination of the two - Lyr & HE-6 -- was spectacular. Anyone who doubts that headphone amps can make a difference should listen to a HE-6 plugged into anything else, and then try the Lyr. I used Schiit's Bifrost digital-to-analog converter for all of my listening tests (watch for the Bifrost review soon). Schiit ships the Lyr with your choice of JJ or GE branded tubes, and I preferred the JJs for their clearer sound. Part of the fun of owning tube electronics is you can change the sound signature by changing tubes. The tubes typically last 5,000 hours or so, and a new tube set should cost around $20. The amp measures 9 by 6.75 by 3.25 inches, and it weighs 7 pounds. The Lyr's rear panel has stereo RCA inputs and outputs. Schiit The rear panel has stereo RCA inputs and outputs, so the amp can also be used as a stereo preamp with an external power amp that drives speakers. The Lyr is made in the U.S. and it's covered by a five-year parts and labor warranty (tubes get a 90-day warranty). Schiit sells the Lyr direct with a 15 day, money-back return policy. The Lyr with the HE-6 headphones was an awesome combination. Yes, it could play as loud as any sane person would ever want, but even when listening at a very moderate volume the clarity and detail were impressive. Classical music was vivid, but never bright or thin sounding; other good quality headphones sound cloudy by comparison with the HE-6 (review in the works). Stereo imaging was liberated beyond the confines of the headphones, and the open quality made the Lyr-HE-6 very easy to listen to for hours at a time. The HE-6 headphones sounded great, but I also wanted to try the Lyr with a couple of more affordable headphones, starting with the Hifiman HE-400 ($399, review in the works). Highly dynamic music had exceptional impact, bass power and definition were excellent. The Lyr's wide-open soundstage was still evident with the HE-400 headphones. Next, I brought out a pair of Philips Fidelio L1($300) headphones. The L1 has a rich tonal balance, and the Lyr maintained that, but added a degree of control and detail I've never heard from the L1s before. When I wasn't playing music I heard a very small amount of tube noise over the headphones, but that's not unusual with tube amplifiers. I didn't notice the noise when I played music. Summing up, I loved the Lyr, it brought out the best with every headphone I tried. Considering its sound and build quality, Schiit's direct-sale home trial policy, and five-year warranty, the Lyr deserves my highest recommendation. Comments The Audiophiliac Audio Culture Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Schiit's muscular Lyr headphone amplifier Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.