https://www.cnet.com/news/verizon-wireless-nabs-cables-wireless-spectrum-for-3-6b/
Verizon Wireless nabs cable's wireless spectrum for $3.6B - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Verizon Wireless nabs cable's wireless spectrum for $3.6B In a surprising announcement, Verizon will buy spectrum from Comcast, Time Warner Cable, and Bright House Networks--collectively known as SpectrumCo. Roger Cheng December 2, 2011 6:22 AM PST Verizon Wireless will acquire a swath of spectrum that cable providers have been sitting on, bolstering its own position even as its competitors scramble for more of the limited resource. In a joint announcement today, Verizon said it would pay $3.6 billion to Comcast, Time Warner Cable, and Bright House Networks--collectively known as SpectrumCo--to get what's known as AWS (Advanced Wireless Services) spectrum. The deal also includes the option for Verizon to sell cable service in its stores and for the cable companies to get access to the wireless network on a wholesale basis. The deal underscores the growing need for spectrum, which is often considered the "lifeblood of the wireless industry," because the airwaves are necessary for carrying traffic across the cellular network. All of the wireless players have expressed a need for more spectrum and have pushed the government to free up little-used spectrum owned by broadcasters. The need for spectrum is one of the primary reasons why AT&T has pursued a $39 billion takeover of T-Mobile USA. "Spectrum is the raw material on which wireless networks are built, and buying the AWS spectrum now solidifies our network leadership into the future, and will enable us to bring even better 4G LTE products and services to our customers," Verizon Wireless CEO Dan Mead said in a statement. It's a surprising move for Verizon, which has been relatively quiet on the acquisition front and has made little noise amid the barrage of news on the AT&T/T-Mobile deal. Verizon previously hadn't expressed any urgent need for additional spectrum. The deal also includes a cross-resale agreement, in which the cable companies can resell Verizon-branded service, and Verizon Wireless stores can sell cable service. In four years, the cable companies will be able to launch wireless service under their own brands in a more traditional wholesale agreement. In addition, the companies will also create a joint innovation initiative to better integrate wireless and cable services. The deal should provide Verizon with additional resources as it continues with the rapid deployment of its 4G LTE network. Verizon, like all of the carriers, is dealing with the explosive growth in data traffic, which has necessitated more cellular equipment and more spectrum. The spectrum, however, isn't an exact match for the current spectrum it uses for its 4G LTE network. Under the deal, Comcast gets $2.3 billion, Time Warner Cable gets $1.1 billion, and Bright House Networks get $189 million. It was always unclear what the cable companies intended to do with the spectrum, which they purchased for $2.37 billion during the AWS auction in 2006. The cable companies had no plans to build their own wireless network, although Cox Communications attempted to and recently killed the service. This deal provides the cable companies with access to Verizon's 4G LTE network, providing them with an alternative wholesale partner to Sprint Nextel and Clearwire. The cable companies had been selling their own version of Clearwire's 4G WiMax service in their own territories as part of their bundle of home Internet, phone, and television services. The new partnership serves as a blow to Sprint and Clearwire, which count the cable companies as major partners. Sprint, interestingly, was part of SpectrumCo but pulled out of the venture in 2007. For T-Mobile, the cable companies had offered a potential alternate partner if the AT&T deal falls through. For Verizon, it represents a cleaner way of obtaining more spectrum; it's less likely to face the regulatory scrutiny of rival AT&T. The deal is expected to take 6 to 12 months to get through regulatory approval, according to someone familiar with the deal. Updated at 6:49 a.m. and 7:41 a.m. PT: to include additional details on SpectrumCo and the agreement. Comments 4G LTE AT&T Clearwire Comcast Sprint T-Mobile Time Warner Cable Verizon Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Verizon Wireless nabs cable's wireless spectrum for $3.6B Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.