https://www.cnet.com/news/best-over-ear-headphones-of-2020/
Best over-ear headphones of 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best over-ear headphones of 2020 Looking for a set of over-ear cans? These are CNET's current top picks. David Carnoy March 14, 2020 11:55 PM PDT Best all around Sony WH-1000XM3 Jump to details $278 at Walmart Excellent for making calls Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 Jump to details $399 at Walmart Best new audiophile headphones V-Moda M-200 Jump to details $350 at Amazon Impressive sound Sennheiser Momentum 3 Jump to details $400 at Amazon Best under $200 JBL Live 650BTNC Jump to details $150 at B&H Photo-Video Luxury looks, Luxury sound Bowers & Wilkins PX7 Jump to details $400 at Amazon Best newcomer Jabra Elite 85h Jump to details $250 at Walmart Oldie but goodie Sony MDR7506 Jump to details $89 at Amazon Open-back design Grado Prestige Series SR325e Jump to details $407 at Walmart Swankiest Bang & Olufsen Beoplay H9 (3rd gen) Jump to details $500 at Amazon Best for sports Plantronics BackBeat Fit 6100 Jump to details $130 at Amazon Show more (6 items) Headphones come in all shapes and sizes these days, but full-size around-ear or over-ear headphones tend to deliver the best sound. Back in the day, pre-Bluetooth, we would have had a bunch of wired audiophile headphones on this list. But more people these days gravitate toward wireless headphones and just as many folks seem to want noise canceling and other high-tech features. As a result, most -- but not all -- of the models on this list are wireless and feature noise canceling. So, with apologies to audio purists, here's a look at our current top picks. Best all around Sony WH-1000XM3 Juan Garzon/CNET Sony's WH-1000XM3, the third generation of Sony's excellent wireless noise-canceling headphones, has a more comfortable fit and features even better headphones sound and music performance than its predecessor. Battery life is important, and with a strong battery life, it's currently our top-rated audio headphone with noise cancellation, edging out the Bose models on some key points. Read our Sony WH-1000XM3 review. $278 at Walmart $278 at Abt Electronics $278 at B&H Photo-Video Now playing: Watch this: Sony's WH-1000XM3 dethrones Bose QuietComfort 35 II as... 2:48 Excellent for making calls Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 Sarah Tew/CNET Bose's Noise Cancelling Headphones 700, the long-awaited successor to its QuietComfort 35 II models, may not be a quantum leap forward, but they offer slightly better sound, call and noise cancellation quality. Alas, they cost $400, but they're a strong all-around audio performer with up to 20 hours of battery life on a single charge. That's a lot of battery life! Read our Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 review. $399 at Walmart $399 at Abt Electronics $399 at HP Best new audiophile headphones V-Moda M-200 Sarah Tew/CNET V-Moda's M-200 is a wired-only headphone and one of the few wired headphones on this list. Released in late 2019, these clean and detailed sounding over-ear headphones have excellent bass response, and the cushy ear cups mean they're also comfortable to wear. Featuring 50mm drivers with neodymium magnets, CCAW voice coils and fine-tuning by Roland engineers -- V-Moda is now owned by Roland -- the M‑200 is Hi‑Res Audio-certified by the Japan Audio Society. Other V-Moda headphones tend to push the bass a little, but this has the more neutral profile that you'd expect from a studio monitor headphone. These studio-quality headphones come with two cords, one of which has a built-in microphone for making calls. It would be helpful if V-Moda offered Lightning or USB-C headphone cables for smartphone users. $350 at Amazon Impressive sound Sennheiser Momentum 3 Sarah Tew/CNET When it comes to premium noise-canceling headphones, Bose and Sony have been the dominant players over the last few years. But now Sennheiser has turned up with its new Momentum 3 Wireless and it deserves some attention, particularly from folks who are fans of the Momentum line. It's available to buy now for $400 (£369) -- the same price as Bose's Noise Cancelling Headphones 700. Not only does it feature improved noise-canceling features and excellent sound and audio for listening to music, but it also performs well as a headset for making calls on your iPhone or Android. While its noise cancellation and comfort level doesn't quite measure up to the noise cancellation and comfort of Sony WH-1000XM3's, it has well padded ear cups covered with sheep leather and I had no trouble rocking it for a two-hour music listening session, to say nothing of the battery life. Read our Sennheiser Momentum 3 first take. $400 at Amazon Best under $200 JBL Live 650BTNC Sarah Tew/CNET While its noise canceling and comfort aren't quite on par with competing models from Bose and Sony, JBL's Live 650BTNC measures up well in terms of sound. These over-ear headphones are worth considering if you don't want to spend $300 or more on noise-canceling headphones. We like the sound of that. Read our JBL Live 650BTNC review. $150 at B&H Photo-Video $150 at Best Buy Luxury looks, Luxury sound Bowers & Wilkins PX7 David Carnoy/CNET I liked Bowers & Wilkins' original PX noise-canceling headphones, but they were slightly lacking in the comfort and noise-canceling departments. The company's new PX7, released in the fall of 2019, improves on both fronts, with excellent sound, four noise-canceling settings (Automatic, Low, High and Off) and well padded ear cups in a sturdy, eye-catching design. There's also an adjustable ambient "transparency" mode that allows you to hear the outside world. The headphones are a tad heavy at 10.7 ounces (304 grams), but the build quality is top-notch -- and it better be, considering these are a little pricey at $400. Bowers & Wilkins also makes a more compact on-ear model, the PX5, which costs $100 less and is also quite good. But this model does sound a little better. The sound is rich and detailed with deep bass that remains well defined even at high volumes. This is a pretty dynamic headphone, with a touch of extra energy in the mid-highs. It's not laid-back like the earlier PX5 Wireless and its most direct competitor is probably the Sennheiser Momentum 3 above. That Sennheiser is arguably superior for making calls, but this B&W probably wins on design. These Bluetooth headphone support AAC and aptX, use Bluetooth 5.0, charges via USB-C and have up to 30 hours of battery life at moderate volume levels. Its noise canceling isn't quite at the level of the Bose or Sony, but it's not far off -- as I said, it's improved from the original PX's noise canceling. $400 at Amazon Best newcomer Jabra Elite 85h Sarah Tew/CNET When Jabra first announced its new Elite 85h ($300, £280) over-ear headphones, it touted how it would be equipped with always-on (hands-free) voice assistant control using Amazon's Alexa or Google Assistant. Alas, that feature didn't make it into the final product -- apparently it affected battery life too much, and battery life is critical -- but the Elite 85h is nevertheless an excellent noise-canceling headphone that makes music and other audio sound good. It's comfortable to wear and also works well as a headset for making calls -- important for over-ear headphones. Read our Jabra Elite 85h review. $250 at Walmart $250 at Best Buy $300 at QVC Oldie but goodie Sony MDR7506 Sarah Tew/CNET Introduced way back in 1991, the Sony MDR-7506 has long been a favorite headphone of recording engineers and other sound professionals (yes, this is a wired headphone). The origins of its design date even further back, since the MDR-7506 is, in fact, a refresh of the Sony MDR-V6 that rolled out in 1985. Both models were designed for the pro market, but remain hugely popular with consumers. While the two headphones have the same design and are very comfortable, they don't sound identical. Both offer very well-balanced sound and excellent clarity for their modest prices -- and both are great overall values. But the V6 makes a little more bass and sounds more laid-back and mellow, while the 7506 is leaner with a more accentuated treble range, which makes it a little crisper and livelier. Read our Sony MDR 7506 review. $89 at Amazon Open-back design Grado Prestige Series SR325e Sarah Tew Another audiophile favorite, Grado's Prestige Series SR325e has been around for a while -- we reviewed it back in 2014. It's an open-back wired model, which means it leaks sound (don't use it in an open-office environment), but it delivers some of the most open, detailed sound you'll find at this price. Grado, which is based in Brooklyn, New York, and builds most of its products there, has not changed the iconic exterior design of the headphones and like its SR325 predecessors (the previous model was the SR325i), his model has the same firm, bowl-shaped foam pads that apply a little more pressure to the outer edges of your ears than the more simple foam pads of the step-down SR80e, which are arguably more comfortable. The SR80e headphones are significantly lighter, but not of the same build quality as the SR325e model. Some people like Grado's earpads (they're user-replaceable), but overall we'd say this model's comfort level isn't up to the level of its sound quality: Comfort is good but not great. Read our Grado Prestige Series SR325e review. $407 at Walmart $295 at B&H Photo-Video $295 at Crutchfield Swankiest Bang & Olufsen Beoplay H9 (3rd gen) Amazon Bang & Olufsen's Beoplay H9 doesn't get mentioned much in the discussion of top noise-canceling headphones because at $500, it's a really pricey pair of headphones. The latest third-generation version has been upgraded in a few significant ways that make it better than the earlier H9i. Battery life for this version has improved over the previous version to 25 hours, there's now a dedicated button for your voice assistant, the padding on the ear cushions and headband is cushier and the touch controls have been tweaked. The sound is still good. $500 at Amazon Best for sports Plantronics BackBeat Fit 6100 Some people, particularly weightlifters, like to work out in full-size headphones, and the BackBeat Fit 6100 over-the-ear wireless headphones are a very solid choice for both the gym and everyday use. The adjustable sport-fit headband has an IPX5-rated water-resistant and sweat-proof design, 40mm angled drivers and noise-isolating earcups with an "Awareness" mode. Battery life is rated at 24 hours. They sound quite good and really stay on your head securely -- you can adjust the tension in the headband, which is innovative and ideal for exercise headphones. They're a little expensive at their list price of $180, but Amazon has them for $130, and sometimes the price dips closer to $100. They're available in black, camo and gray. $130 at Amazon More headphone coverage on CNET The best headphones of 2020 Best true wireless earbuds of 2020 Best on-ear headphones of 2020 Best headphones for running in 2020 Best wireless earbuds and headphones for making calls Best cheap true wireless headphones Best noise-canceling headphones of 2020 Best workout headphones in 2020 Best soundbars for 2020 Best soundbars with Amazon Alexa in 2020 Best turntables under $300 in 2020 Best Wi-Fi speakers and music systems of 2020 The best wireless speakers to give in 2020 Best AV receivers under $500 Soundbar vs. speakers: Which TV audio system sounds best in 2020? Comments Mobile Accessories Headphones Bose Sony Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Best over-ear headphones of 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.