https://www.cnet.com/news/how-waterproof-is-your-android-phone-or-iphone-heres-what-ip68-and-ip67-ratings-mean/
How waterproof is your Android phone or iPhone? Here's what IP68 and IP67 ratings mean - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In How waterproof is your Android phone or iPhone? Here's what IP68 and IP67 ratings mean If your phone is water-resistant enough, you won't need to buy a waterproof case. But splashproof is a different story. Dan Graziano, Jessica Dolcourt April 18, 2019 2:00 AM PDT Josh Miller/CNET A "waterproof" phone or other device can make all the difference between stressing out or laughing it off when your drink tumbles over or somebody cannonballs into the pool. Water-resistant phones are much more common theses days, which is great because it means you won't have to buy a bulky waterproof case. Apple introduced water-resistance capabilities in the iPhone 7 ($550 at Boost Mobile) (and newer, all the way up to the iPhone XS Max ($1,000 at Best Buy)), and Samsung's water-resistance for the Galaxy S and Galaxy Note ($449 at Amazon) series has long been established. But not every phone is water-resistant and not all waterproofing is equal. IP68 and IP67 are the most water-repellant, while IP54 should instill a healthy fear if you're taking photos in the hot tub or on a boat. Turns out, some waterproofing claims really describe resistance to splashes. It pays to know the differences -- and what the ratings mean for using your phone, tablet, activity tracker, smartwatch and even some wireless speakers by the pool, in the rain or in the shower. Let's break this down. Now playing: Watch this: How water-resistant is the iPhone XS? 5:38 IP rating The first thing you need to look for is a device's Ingress Protection Rating (or International Protection Rating), although it is more commonly referred to as an IP rating. Rating codes do not include hyphens or spaces, and consist of the letters IP followed by one or two digits. Two common ratings for consumer devices are IP67 and IP68. Read on to find out exactly what that means. With "waterproof" phones, you won't fear the bucket. Luke Westaway/CNET IP codes are a standard set forth by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC). According to the organization, the codes are designed as a "system for classifying the degrees of protection provided by the enclosures of electrical equipment." The first number in the rating code represents the degree of protection provided against the entry of foreign solid objects, such as fingers or dust. These protection levels range from 0 to 6. The second number represents the degree of protection against the entry of moisture, with protection levels ranging from 0 through 8. An IP code with an "X" in place of the first or second number means that a device hasn't been tested to protect against the entry of solid objects (the first number) or moisture (the second number). For example, a device with the rating IPX7 is protected from accidental submersion in 1 meter (3.3 feet) of water for up to 30 minutes, but it has not been tested against the entry of dust. Below you will find a chart that outlines all of the protection levels set by the IEC. Solid protection IP Code Protection Object size 0 No protection N/A 1 Protection from contact with any large surface of the body, such as the back of a hand, but no protection against deliberate contact with a body part, such as a finger Less than 50mm 2 Protection from fingers or similar objects Less than 12.5mm 3 Protection from tools, thick wires or similar objects Less than 2.5mm 4 Protection from most wires, screws or similar objects Less than 1mm 5 Partial protection from contact with harmful dust N/A 6 Protection from contact with harmful dust N/A As an example, an electrical socket rated IP22 (typically the minimum requirement for electrical accessories designed for indoor use) is protected against insertion of fingers and won't be damaged by vertically dripping water. Since we are talking about our gadgets, however, you only need to pay attention to IP ratings above IP5X or IP6X (for resistance or protection from dust). For example, the iPhone X and iPhone XR ($599 at Apple) are certified with an IP67 rating, which means that they are fully protected from dust (6) and can also withstand being submerged in 1m (about 3.3 feet) of static water for up to 30 mins (7). Then there are the Samsung Galaxy S10 and iPhone XS ($900 at Best Buy) ad XS Max, which are rated IP68. This means that like the iPhone XR, the phones rated IP68 can withstand being submerged in static water, but the specific depth and duration must be disclosed by the company, which in this case is 1.5 meters (about 5 feet) for up to 30 minutes. Not too complicated, right? Unfortunately it's not all cut and dried. Devices aren't required to pass every test leading up to the highest rating they achieve, although many companies do test them at varies levels. In some cases, however, a phone rated with IP67 may not have been tested against dust protection levels 1 through 5, or water protection levels 1 through 6. Moisture protection IP Code Protection Test duration Usage 0 No protection N/A N/A 1 Protection against vertically dripping water 10 mins Light rain 2 Protection against vertically dripping water when device is tilted at an angle up to 15 degrees 10 mins Light rain 3 Protection against direct sprays of water when device is tilted at an angle up to 60 degrees 5 mins Rain and spraying 4 Protection from sprays and splashing of water in all directions. 5 mins Rain, spraying and splashing 5 Protection from low-pressure water projected from a nozzle with a 6.3mm diameter opening in any direction 3 mins from a distance of 3 meters Rain, splashing and direct contact with most kitchen/bathroom faucets 6 Protection from water projected in powerful jets from a nozzle with a 12.5mm diameter opening in any direction 3 mins from a distance of 3 meters Rain, splashing, direct contact with kitchen/bathroom faucets, outdoor use in rough sea conditions 7 Protected from immersion in water with a depth of up to 1 meter (or 3.3 feet) for up to 30 mins 30 mins Rain, splashing and accidental submersion 8 Protected from immersion in water with a depth of more than 1 meter (manufacturer must specify exact depth) Varies Rain, splashing and accidental submersion For example, since the iPhone 8 doesn't include the IPX5 or IPX6 rating for withstanding water coming from a jet, you shouldn't take it in the shower or run it under the sink, unless Apple specifically states otherwise, which it didn't. In fact, the company has said that liquid damage isn't covered under the phone's standard warranty. And the excellent Moto G7 budget phone doesn't have an IP rating, but the company says it has a water-repellent coating. As a bit of a throwback example, the Sony Xperia XZ ($245 at Amazon) is certified with an IP65 and IP68 rating, which means it is protected from dust and against low-pressure water jets, such as a faucet, when all ports are closed. The company also specifies that the phone can be submerged in 1.5 meters (4.9 feet) of fresh water for up to 30 mins. Water pressure If anyone ever tells you that a watch is waterproof, it's a lie. No watch is truly waterproof, and in fact the International Organization for Standardization and Federal Trade Commission prohibit watches from being labeled as being "waterproof." While a watch may be able to withstand a certain degree of water exposure, there is always a limit to how much water pressure it can handle before it begins to leak. The term "waterproof" implies that a device will remain unscathed under even the most difficult of circumstances. To help regulate and explain water resistance in watches, the ISO has set standards that have been adopted by many traditional watchmakers. Most smartwatches and activity trackers, however, don't actually adhere to these standards and therefore aren't ISO-certified. Consumer electronics tend to follow the IP code, although some companies, such as Garmin, Pebble and Polar, independently test their products to determine how much pressure they can withstand. Pressure tests are measured in ATMs, which stands for atmospheres, and then converted to water depth to make the measurements easier to understand. Each ATM is equivalent to 10 meters (33 feet) of static water pressure. Below you will find a chart that outlines that basic water-resistance levels. Water pressure Water Ratings Protection Usage 1 ATM Withstands pressures equivalent to a depth of 10 meters (33 feet) Improved resistance to rain and splashes. No showering or swimming. 3 ATM Withstands pressures equivalent to a depth of 30 meters (98 feet) Rain, splashing, accidental submersion and showering. No swimming. 5 ATM Withstands pressures equivalent to a depth of 50 meters (164 feet) Rain, splashing, accidental submersion, showering, surface swimming, shallow snorkeling 10 ATM Withstands pressures equivalent to a depth of 100 meters (328 feet) Rain, splashing, accidental submersion, showering, swimming and snorkeling. No deep water scuba diving or high-speed water sports. 20 ATM Withstands pressures equivalent to a depth of 200 meters (656 feet) Rain, splashing, accidental submersion, showering, swimming, snorkeling, surface diving and water sports. No deep water diving. Unfortunately, because there is no universal testing method, real-world usage is different for every device. For example, while the Garmin Forerunner 735XT ($235 at Amazon) has a water resistance rating of 5 ATM, Garmin states that the watch can be worn both in the shower and while swimming. Fitbit, on the other hand, recommends Surge users to remove the device before swimming, despite being rated 5 ATM. It should also be noted that even though 3 ATM is rated for a certain depth, that depth is measured in static pressure. Water pressure can change quickly, such as when you move your arm to begin swimming. While you may only be in 10 feet of water, the pressure created from your arm movement could be equal to that of a couple of ATMs. As Garmin explains on its website, "Even if a device is above a depth it's rated for, it might still suffer water ingression if it is subjected to an activity that creates pressure on it that exceeds that depth rating." As I said earlier, it's not all cut-and-dry. You should check the device's website and see what the company recommends before taking a smartwatch or fitness tracker in the shower or the pool. Samsung's Galaxy S phones have passed the dunk test for years. Josh Miller/CNET Things to remember Most resistance testing is performed in fresh water. Devices aren't guaranteed to hold up to salt water, unless specifically stated from the manufacturer. While showering with IP-rated devices isn't recommended, the device won't break if you forget to take it off. The device could begin to leak and become damaged with continued exposure however, and water damage may not be covered under the warranty. Unless otherwise specified, most tests are carried out at temperatures between 15 and 35 degrees Celsius (60 to 95 Fahrenheit). Higher temperatures in places like saunas, steam rooms and hot tubs could damage the device. For example, the Pebble has been tested to work within the temperature range of -10 to 60 degrees C (14 to 140 F). For obvious reasons, leather watchbands are not water-resistant. Make sure all flaps (such as those for charging ports) are closed before submerging your device. Unless otherwise stated by the manufacturer, you should avoid pressing buttons on the device while it is underwater. This could allow water to enter into the casing and damage the device. Make sure the device is completely dry before charging it. Always refer to the manufacturer's website before taking a phone, smartwatch or fitness tracker in the shower or the pool. This article was originally published in April 2015 and is updated periodically to include new devices. Comments Phones Tablets Wearable Tech Fitbit Garmin Samsung Sony Apple Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: How waterproof is your Android phone or iPhone? Here's what IP68 and IP67 ratings mean Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.