https://www.cnet.com/news/some-iphone-users-get-refund-some-dont/
Some iPhone users get refund, some don't - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Some iPhone users get refund, some don't There seems to be confusion among some Apple and AT&T store representatives as some early iPhone users cash in on the $200 refund while others are turned away. Marguerite Reardon September 6, 2007 12:12 PM PDT Apple's price cut on the new iPhone is causing some confusion among existing iPhone users about who is entitled to a price adjustment and who isn't. Apple Apple's CEO Steve Jobs announced Wednesday the company is slashing the price of the iPhone by $200. The 8-gigabyte version of the iPhone was $599 but now sells for $399. Apple and AT&T have said they will give $200 credits or refunds to customers who bought the iPhone in the past two weeks. So what about the thousands of people who waited in line all night for their iPhones back in June? They're likely out of luck. But it seems like the policy isn't being followed everywhere. Several iPhone users, who bought their iPhones more than two weeks ago, say they were given $200 refunds for their iPhones after contacting Apple and AT&T stores where they purchased their iPhones. Former CNET video personality Veronica Belmont said on her blog on Thursday that one of her friends was able to get $200 back on his 8GB iPhone from Apple on Thursday morning. And he bought his phone on July 2. But not everyone is getting the price adjustment. One of my colleagues at CNET called AT&T to get his refund. The customer care representative he talked to said he was entitled to the credit, despite the fact that he bought his phone well before the 14-day cutoff. He was referred to the AT&T store where he bought his phone. But when he called the store, he was denied the credit. Mark Siegel, a spokesman for AT&T said he couldn't comment on these individual incidents, except to say that AT&T's customer service and in-store representatives are well aware of the return and refund policy. CNET News.com Apple reporter Tom Krazit and I are trying to get to the bottom of this confusing mess. If you've gotten a refund or credit from Apple or AT&T or you've been trying to and you'd like to share your experience with us, please contact Tom and me at tom.krazit@cnet.com and maggie.reardon@cnet.com. We're working on a more in-depth article on the topic for later, so stay tuned. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Some iPhone users get refund, some don't Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.