https://www.cnet.com/news/crave-talk-iphone-idont-think-so/
Crave Talk: iPhone, iDon't think so - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Crave Talk: iPhone, iDon't think so Internet speculation is rife that Apple will launch an iPhone with a scrollwheel at its Worldwide Developers Conference on Monday. We think this is simply ridiculous. Here's why... Andrew Lim August 4, 2006 4:56 AM PDT Apple's chief executive Steve Jobs is expected to announce more gadgets to stuff down your trousers next Monday, at Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference. As usual, speculation is rife. Especially since Apple's PR department fiercely tracks down any real leaks like an Afghan hound, which makes finding out any pre-launch information as easy as trying to recite pi to 83,432 digits. One of the longest-running rumours this year has been the Apple iPhone, essentially a mobile phone that looks like an iPod, and walks like an iPod, but talks like a mobile phone. A plethora of mock images, videos and even fake adverts have fuelled such a large fire that every tech blog seems to regularly mention the imminent arrival of an Apple mobile phone. Of course, last year Apple did make a phone with Motorola (the Rokr E1), but this was, in no uncertain terms, a disaster. Some pundits went as far as saying that Apple intentionally made the Rokr bad, so that people wouldn't buy it and would continue to buy iPods instead. It's rumoured that the new Apple phone will be nothing like the Rokr -- it's been said it will have a scroll wheel, and a look and feel like the rest of the Apple product family. But we think the idea that Apple will launch a phone on Monday is simply ridiculous. Although we'd love to see an iPhone, we don't think it's going to be launched any time soon. From speculation about a mobile network deal with Japanese communications company SoftBank, to the mobile phone code in the latest iPod firmware update, we think these rumours are simply too good to be true. We think there will be an iPhone at some point in time, but it won't be soon. Apple prides itself on making simple to use products and making a mobile phone that matches the rest of its product range will take time. As we saw with the Rokr, you can't simply strap iTunes onto any phone -- you have to remake the entire device including the interface and casing. This is by no means a press to play product, so unless Jobs has already been planning this for years, there's still a long way to go. Now we know Steve is a tech clairvoyant, but music phones have only been a viable part of the market for about a year. So if you're pinning your hopes on upgrading your phone to an Apple one soon, then you'll have to keep on dreaming. At least you can put a face to your fantasies by looking at the mock-up images, although the real thing may end up looking very different... -Andrew Lim Comments Phones Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Crave Talk: iPhone, iDon't think so Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.