https://www.cnet.com/news/silicon-valley-trailer-season-5-hbo-march/
'Silicon Valley' season 5 trailer offers new internet - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In 'Silicon Valley' trailer offers new internet and, well, vomit Commentary: Season 5 of the HBO show returns in March with great challenges for our modern-day tragicomic heroes. Chris Matyszczyk January 10, 2018 5:30 PM PST Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives. When we left Richard Hendricks, he was promising to make Hooli obsolete. Should that sentence appear to you as "xkrktykykukuk," you might not (yet) be a convert to "Silicon Valley." The HBO show returns for a fifth season in March, and the first trailer is now upon us. It appears Richard Hendricks and his (largely) faithful band of (rarely) merry men at Pied Piper are going to be faced with the challenges of growth in the new season. For they are the creators of the so-called New Internet. They've been used to being a scrappy startup, always on the brink of being on the scrapheap. Now, they have employees. Lots of employees. And Hendricks, not always the most confident of CEOs, reacts in a way we've seen before. He goes to his office and vomits. Sadly, this office lacks the privacy of some, so Hendricks's hurried hurl is witnessed by all his new employees. More Technically Incorrect The best job in America is, oh, software developer Tim Cook failed to sell me on iPhone, says Warren Buffett Stephen Hawking: I'll pay to send climate change deniers to Venus Some will wonder whether the show's personal dynamic will be altered by the disappearance of Erlich Bachman, played by T.J. Miller. Bachman was the man who ran the hacker hostel that spawned Pied Piper and he could always be relied upon for knowing slightly less about life than he thought. The trailer offers a little clue about what happens to the house, a clue that promises its own humorous angle. The show has become one of the premier cult TV comedies, popular surely among those with no interest in the Valley, as much as among those to whom the characters and scenarios are all too familiar. Whatever pain Hendricks must endure in this new series, it's surely still better than the suffering he goes through in those Verizon ads. 2018's hottest new sci-fi and geeky TV shows 50 Photos Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech. Crowd Control: A crowdsourced science fiction novel written by CNET readers. Comments Technically Incorrect Tech Industry Notification on Notification off TV and Movies Close Discuss: 'Silicon Valley' trailer offers new internet and, well, vomit Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.