https://www.cnet.com/news/apple-others-sued-over-privacy-again/
Apple, others sued over privacy (again) - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Apple, others sued over privacy (again) A new suit targets Apple, along with Pandora and The Weather Channel, for violating user privacy, taking aim specifically at location. Josh Lowensohn May 11, 2011 12:19 PM PDT Josh Lowensohn/CNET Apple, along with Pandora Media and The Weather Channel, have been named in a lawsuit alleging that the companies did not disclose the fact that personal data--specifically location--was being shared with third-party advertising networks. The suit, filed yesterday in the U.S. District Court in Puerto Rico by Lymaris Rivera Diaz and picked up by The Loop, closely resembles an existing suit from December. That one targeted the same companies as well as other app makers for being able to trace an iPhone or iPad using the unique device identifier, or UDID, which is akin to a serial number in that it cannot be changed. "Because the UDID is unique to each iPhone and iPad, it is an attractive feature for third-party advertisers looking for a means of reliably tracking a mobile device users' online activities," the new suit says. "Because the UDID is not alterable or deletable by a iPhone or iPad user, some have referred to the UDID as a 'supercookie.' This description aptly summarizes the desirability of access to the UDID from an advertising perspective." The suit takes aim specifically at Apple--as the maker of the device and the mechanism for running and installing applications--for not letting users control access to this piece of user information. "Unfortunately, however, unlike with browser cookies, Apple does not provide users any way to delete or restrict access to their devices' UDIDs. Traditional efforts to prevent Internet tracking, such as deleting cookies, have no effect on Apps' access to an iPhone's or iPad's UDID," it says. Along with basic user information, the suit also highlights location, specifically the database stored on the device that became a target of interest last month. Apple says this information is used as part of a crowd-sourced database of cell towers and Wi-Fi access points, which lets iOS devices determine their location in a more efficient manner. Diaz's complaint focuses on the fact that the location data is stored across backups and between device migrations in an unencrypted format. Apple has since addressed several of those claims as part of a software update that went out to users a week ago and before the suit was filed. Apple has also said that it intends to fully encrypt that database on the device itself in the next major system software update. The lawsuit seeks class action, and names 10 yet-unnamed defendants the suit says will be "specifically identified and named as discovery progresses and their roles in the wrongdoing at issue is revealed." It also seeks damages, restitution, and an injunction against Apple for collecting any data attached to UDIDs. Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Representatives for Pandora and The Weather Channel declined to comment. Comments Tech Industry Privacy Pandora Apple Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Apple, others sued over privacy (again) Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.