https://www.cnet.com/news/photos-the-asus-ecobook-bamboo-laptop/
Photos: The Asus EcoBook bamboo laptop - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Photos: The Asus EcoBook bamboo laptop We've seen plastic, leather and even fur, but nothing prepared us for the world's first bamboo laptop Rory Reid March 8, 2007 4:52 AM PST We've just spent the morning fondling an Asus EcoBook -- the first laptop to feature real bamboo panelling. Yes, bamboo -- the stuff that's gobbled up by pandas and used to construct beach houses in the Maldives. Making a laptop out of wood doesn't sound all that sane a project, but we should probably get accustomed to this sort of thing -- Asus has already delivered the first leather-bound laptops, and Tulip does a range of crazy laptop skins for its Ego range. The EcoBook, due to launch next year, is designed to communicate Asus' eco-friendly message. Like it or loathe it, you should check out the world exclusive pictures over the next few pages. -RR Next page The EcoBook has a modular design. This illustration shows how the individual panels are attached to the main unit. Should one of the panels be accidentally damaged, it can be replaced with relative ease. Unfortunately, consumers won't be able to exchange panels as is possible on some mobile phones. Next page From concept to reality: bamboo is hacked from some poor, unsuspecting plant and shaped to fit the EcoBook. Next page The final product is striking. The EcoBook has a very warm look about it and makes a welcome change from the hackneyed black and silver laptops that have flooded the market. Next page Up close, you can really see the detail in the wood. Take a look at the mouse trackpad, too. It's been scaled up by 150 per cent in order to integrate a handwriting function -- you simply use your fingers or a stylus to enter text. Next page The mouse trackpad has LED status lights fitted behind the cover. Asus says this reduces the cost of manufacturing and assembling external LED lenses. Next page The keys on the keyboard are designed to mimic the look of bamboo joints. The wood above the ports is engraved so you can easily find which one you're looking for. On final retail models, the large, circular PowerGear button (for adjusting laptop performance) will glow red or green to indicate how much power is being consumed. Next page The bamboo is natural so it is, of course, biodegradable. Each of the panels can be recycled separately, so you can be confident that your fancy new laptop is kind to the environment. Previous page Comments Notification on Notification off Laptops Close Discuss: Photos: The Asus EcoBook bamboo laptop Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.