https://www.cnet.com/news/barcelona-is-finally-here-as-amd-parties-in-san-francisco/
Barcelona is finally here, as AMD parties in San Francisco - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Barcelona is finally here, as AMD parties in San Francisco Company reveals a new performance tidbit, missing from initial materials, as formal launch party for Barcelona gets under way. Tom Krazit September 10, 2007 10:34 PM PDT AMD CEO Hector Ruiz launched one of the most important products of his tenure Monday night. Tom Krazit/CNET News.com AMD's Barcelona party kicked off Monday night in San Francisco, and the relief was palpable on many faces. The company formally unveiled Barcelona, AMD's first quad-core server processor, during an event spread over two buildings in San Francisco's Presidio district. The Presidio was once an army base when it made sense to guard the Golden Gate with cannons. AMD executives, employees and partners seem ready to emerge from their bunkers after months hunkered down waiting for cover. Barcelona gives AMD that cover. "Barcelona was designed to win in four key areas: performance, investment protection, virtualization and energy efficiency," said CEO Hector Ruiz while onstage at the Letterman Digital Arts Theater inside LucasFilm's facilities. The chip isn't quite the breakthrough in performance in its current incarnation that AMD was hoping for, as we covered earlier this week. But AMD shared some new performance data Monday night that it chose not to include in its initial launch materials. One thing we noticed that was conspicuously missing from AMD's launch materials were scores for Specint_rate2006, an important measure of performance that corporations use to judge processor performance for transactional types of workloads such as e-mail servers or databases. A little extrapolation revealed that AMD trailed Intel's chips by a fair amount in this category, which appeared to take a bit of the shine off AMD's launch. But the company had a new PowerPoint slide Monday night that addressed Specint_rate2006 performance, and it's all about the compiler. That's the piece of software that translates application code into the machine language used by processors. The new Barcelona performance slide--if accurate--addresses some concerns about the chip's integer performance. Tom Krazit/CNET News.com Using the GCC compiler developed by the Free Software Foundation, which AMD server chief Randy Allen called "the most predominant compiler," AMD said Barcelona beat Intel's Xeon 5345 processor by 9 percent. When Intel's own compiler was used against the PCG compiler, Barcelona trailed the Xeon chip by 5 percent on the SpecINT benchmark. A few analysts in attendance confirmed that that GCC compiler is widely used, even over Intel's compilers on occasion. Still, AMD didn't provide the actual scores for that benchmark, just the comparison against Intel, so it's unclear what particular tests it was referring to in the slide. One other advantage this time around, compared with AMD's initial Opteron launch in 2003, was the partners backing the company on stage. VMware CEO Diane Greene joined Ruiz and Allen to tout the performance of Barcelona when it comes to virtualization, which should be a major topic this week with the VMWorld conference in town. Sun Microsystems CEO Jonathan Schwartz talked up his company's partnership with AMD, despite the warming of ties earlier this year between Intel and Sun. And representatives from Dell, Hewlett-Packard and IBM also made appearances during AMD's event. Free food, free booze, but the price was a 90-minute marketing presentation. Oh well. Tom Krazit/CNET News.com Right now, Barcelona is a little underwhelming, but the company confirmed a 2.5GHz version is on the way for later this year, which should provide a boost to its performance scores. As the company gets closer to 3GHz, it seems Barcelona really starts to shine. We'll have to see if that translates into the profits AMD desperately needs. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Barcelona is finally here, as AMD parties in San Francisco Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.