https://www.cnet.com/news/at-t-sales-tick-up-on-continued-iphone-strength/
AT&T sales tick up on continued iPhone strength - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In AT&T sales tick up on continued iPhone strength The carrier activated 3.6 million iPhones in the quarter, likely helped by its cheaper $50 iPhone 3GS. Roger Cheng July 21, 2011 5:00 AM PDT AT&T reported a slight decline in second-quarter profit today, although revenue ticked up amid the continued strength of iPhone and other smartphone sales. The Dallas-based telecommunications giant posted a profit of $3.6 billion, or 60 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier profit of $4 billion, or 67 cents a share. The year-ago results were helped by the sale of stock in Telmex Internacional. Excluding the Telmex asset sale, the year-over-year comparison would have been flat. Revenue rose 2.2 percent year over year to $31.5 billion. Analysts, on average, expected earnings of 59 cents a share and revenue of $31.31 billion, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters. "We're encouraged by the quarter," said Todd Rosenbluth, an equity analyst for Standard & Poor's. The carrier said it activated 3.6 million iPhones in the quarter. It was likely helped by sales of both the iPhone 4 and its cheaper $50 iPhone 3GS. AT&T had been known as the iPhone carrier, but that exclusive run ended earlier this year when Verizon Wireless also began selling the Apple smartphone. In preparation, AT&T began diversifying its product portfolio, aggressively embracing the Android operating system this year. The company said that its non-iPhone smartphones more than doubled from a year ago. In total, the company sold 5.6 million smartphones and noted that 70 percent of the people who signed up for a service contract chose a smartphone. The company's customer growth continues to be weighed down by its integration of Alltel and Centennial. The company added 331,000 net new contract customers, although the number jumps to 504,000 when excluding customer defections from the two acquired wireless providers. The company also added 379,000 connected devices such as tablets, e-readers and digital picture frames, an increasingly important segment of its business. "We delivered another strong wireless quarter in a very competitive environment," Chief Financial Officer John Stephens said during a conference call this morning. "The wireless business continues to exceed expectations." AT&T raised its forecast for full-year capital expenditures to the $20 billion range. It previously expected to be in the low-to-middle $19 billion range. The increase is likely due to its more aggressive push to deploy its 4G LTE network. The company last week unveiled its first two LTE products and plans to deploy the next-generation network in five cities this summer. Stephens said the additional capital is being spent on "improving the customer experience" and will go into its upcoming 4G LTE network, its current network, and infrastructure to support faster service. But the higher capital expenditures could signal longer-term implications for wireless spending and suggest that the cost to deliver service could be getting more expensive. "I think the more interesting focus will be on capex," said Jonathan Chaplin, an analyst at Credit Suisse. "Does it just cost more to maintain networks with the amount of data that's out there?" Stephens said AT&T is increasing its capital expenditures because it felt the financial flexibility to do so. In addition to the financial results, many company watchers are looking for an update on AT&T's progress in seeking approval for its $39 billion acquisition of T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom. Yesterday, the head of the Senate's antitrust committee spoke out against the merger, while Democratic leaders in the House also sought more scrutiny of the deal. Wayne Watts, AT&T's general counsel, said the carrier has put together a report highlighting some of the improved efficiencies and other market benefits from the transaction. Watts added that he is "comfortable" the deal will be approved by the first quarter. He added that opposition from members of Congress, as well as the departure of Justice Department Chief Christine Varney, will have little material impact on the process or the timing. "We remain comfortable with the process so far and the pace that we're moving," Watts said. Updated at 5:57 a.m. PT: with additional details on financial results. Updated at 8:03 a.m. PT: with executive comments from the conference call and analyst reaction. Comments 4G LTE AT&T T-Mobile Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: AT&T sales tick up on continued iPhone strength Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.