https://www.cnet.com/news/apple-could-see-some-impact-from-coronavirus-in-china-cook-says/
Apple could see some impact from coronavirus in China, Cook says - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Apple could see some impact from coronavirus in China, Cook says Apple has suppliers in the Wuhan area of China and has taken precautions like closing retail stores. Shara Tibken February 6, 2020 11:59 AM PST Leer en español Listen - 04:13 Apple is taking extra precautions in China because of the coronavirus sweeping the country. Getty Images Not even Apple is immune to the coronavirus sweeping the globe, with suppliers and stores impacted by the deadly disease. CEO Tim Cook last week said the company has suppliers in China's Wuhan region, where the coronavirus first emerged. The iPhone maker has alternative sources for those components, he said, and it's "working on mitigation plans to make up any expected production loss." What's less clear is how the coronavirus will impact suppliers in other parts of China, Cook said. The Chinese government extended the New Year holiday break from the end of January to Feb. 10, which will delay the startup of Apple supplier factories, Cook said. Even if suppliers do get back to work on Monday, the two week halt of operations could mean delays for some devices. Up to 45 million pairs of AirPods could be caught in limbo while manufactures wait on components needed to assemble the wireless earbuds, according to a report Thursday from Nikkei Asian Review. Now playing: Watch this: Deadly coronavirus detected in the US 1:41 Apple made the move to temporarily shutter all of its stores in mainland China and close its corporate offices and contact centers in China through Feb. 9. "The situation is emerging, and we're still gathering lots of data points and monitoring it very closely," Cook said during a call with analysts after the company reported record earnings on Jan. 28. Apple factored the possible supplier and retail traffic impact into its revenue guidance for the March quarter, which -- at $63 billion to $67 billion -- is a bigger range than it normally provides. Even with the possible impact, Apple's projection is higher than the $62.45 billion expected by analysts. The virus' spread The virus was first detected in the Chinese city of Wuhan late last year. It has claimed more than 560 lives and infected over 28,000 Chinese citizens with a pneumonia-like illness. The virus, known as 2019-nCoV, was reported to the World Health Organization on Dec. 31 and has been under investigation since. Chinese scientists have linked the disease to a family of viruses known as coronaviruses, which include the deadly SARS and Middle East respiratory syndrome. The virus since has spread to Europe, Australia, the US and other countries. A special WHO committee declared a public health emergency of international concern on Jan. 30, citing "the potential for the virus to spread to countries with weaker health systems." Apple's China reach Cook's comments about the coronavirus came as Apple reported all-time record highs for revenue and earnings during the company's fiscal first quarter, which ended Dec. 28. The company benefited from strong sales of its newest iPhones -- 11, 11 Pro and 11 Pro Max -- as well as demand for its AirPods Pro and its services. China has become one of Apple's most important markets over the past several years. In early 2015, China surpassed the US to become Apple's biggest iPhone market. (The US later regained that status.) Apple's revenue from Greater China rose 3.1% to $13.6 billion in the quarter. It lagged behind the Americas and Europe, but sales in some product areas soared during the period. See also Apple's AirPods Pro, services deliver a record holiday for the iPhone maker Coronavirus death toll passes 100, a grim milestone Apple saw double-digit growth for its iPhone business in Mainland China in the first quarter, Cook said, a turnaround from sluggishness Apple had experienced in recent quarters. It also had double-digit growth in its services business in China -- which includes its App Store -- and "extremely strong double-digit" growth for its wearables business, which includes the Apple Watch and AirPods, Cook said. "In terms of the things that customers are responding to, iPhone 11 is doing particularly well there," he said. While Apple sells a lot of its gadgets in China, it's also tied to the country in another key way. Apple designs its phones in the US, but the devices -- like many other electronics -- are assembled in China. Many of its employees travel frequently between the region and Apple's Cupertino, California, headquarters, and a slowdown in production in China could mean a shortage of iPhones and other Apple devices across the globe. "We're closely following the development of the coronavirus," Cook said on Jan. 28. "We're donating to groups that are working to contain the outbreak. We are working closely with our Apple team members and partners in the affected areas, and our thoughts are with all of those affected across the region." CNET's Jackson Ryan contributed to this report. Originally published Jan. 28. Updates, Jan. 28: Includes additional comments and background; Feb. 6: Adds more details on impact of coronavirus on Apple. Comments Phones Tech Industry Wearable Tech Health and Wellness Tim Cook Notification on Notification off Apple Close Discuss: Apple could see some impact from coronavirus in China, Cook says Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.