https://www.cnet.com/news/save-the-world-as-a-tech-savvy-spider-in-apple-arcades-new-game/
Save the world as a tech-savvy spider in Apple Arcade's new game - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Save the world as a tech-savvy spider in Apple Arcade's new game Spyder is available to play on Apple Arcade right now. Shelby Brown March 24, 2020 2:55 PM PDT Listen - 01:25 Use your size to your advantage and don't get caught. Apple Apple Arcade on Friday added Spyder from Sumo Digital to its growing catalog of over 100 games. In Spyder, you must save the world as Agent 8 -- a sophisticated miniature robot spider deployed by the British Spy Agency. Use all of your built-in spy gadgets, gizmos and tools as you scurry to sabotage the dastardly plans of SIN, an evil organization bent on destroying the world. See at App Store "I really love the unique perspective you get from being a tiny character in a human scale world where every surface is climbable. It really encourages the player to explore and find new and interesting solutions to the puzzles in the game," Nic Cusworth, lead game designer for Spyder told CNET. Agent 8 is immediately dropped into The War Room and tasked with preventing the launch of a missile. The controls are easy to get the hang of and the details in the game, like Agent 8's interactions with "large" objects like pens. Although you have the stealth element, navigating the environment requires more strategy. "Really take some time to explore the environments to get a different perspective on the world. Some puzzles in the game might be a little perplexing up close, but viewing a puzzle from a different angle often reveals the solution," Cusworth said. With Apple Arcade's release in September, Apple firmly staked its claim in the mobile gaming world. The subscription gaming service costs $4.99 a month (£4.99, AU$7.99) and lets you play 100 new and exclusive games across the iPhone, iPad, Mac, iPod Touch and Apple TV. Now playing: Watch this: Apple Arcade is changing video games for $5 a month 6:02 Apple Arcade: 50 of our favorite games so far 51 Photos Comments iPhone Update Mobile Mobile Apps Gaming Video Games Apple Arcade Notification on Notification off Apple Close Discuss: Save the world as a tech-savvy spider in Apple Arcade's new game Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.