https://www.cnet.com/news/best-water-bottles-for-2020/
The best water bottles in 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. The best water bottles in 2020 These are some of the best alternatives to disposable plastic water bottles to keep you hydrated all day long. Amanda Capritto February 12, 2020 10:34 AM PST Hydro Flask Standard Mouth Best stainless steel water bottle Jump to details $33 at Amazon Pressa Bottle Best for fruit-infused water Jump to details $39 at Amazon Platypus Platy Ultralight Collapsible Best water bottle for hiking Jump to details $16 at Amazon Grayl Geopress Purifier Best filtered water bottle for outdoors Jump to details $90 at Amazon Contigo Purity Glass Water Bottle Best glass water bottle Jump to details $15 at Amazon Klean Kanteen 20 oz Insulated Reflect Best environmentally friendly water bottle Jump to details $43 at Amazon S’well Roamer Our large water bottle pick Jump to details $75 at S'well Best filtered water bottle for tap water Astrea One Jump to details $40 at Amazon Que bottle Best collapsible water bottle Jump to details $26 at Amazon CrazyCap Gen 2 Best self-cleaning water bottle Jump to details $69 at CrazyCap Pathwater Best when you're in a pinch Jump to details See at Pathwater Show more (6 items) It's no secret that single-use plastic is not only bad for the environment, but can harm your body, too. If you're looking to cut down on your plastic use, a reusable water bottle is one of the best and easiest ways to start. A good reusable water bottle will last for years and withstand day-to-day stresses, such as being thrown in a bag or accidentally clanking it into a railing. Plus, having a water bottle you love might make it easier to stay hydrated all day long. How to pick a reusable water bottle Water bottles are mainly made from three different materials: plastic, glass and metal (or stainless steel). All three have their own hydration pros and cons. Plastic is lightweight and durable, but plastic can transfer a taste or odor to your beverage when you drink. Glass bottles are safer to drink from than plastic and don't hold onto taste but they're fragile and not ideal for rough outdoor activities like backpacking. Metal water bottles and stainless steel are also usually insulated (there's insulation around the body) and are the best at keeping the beverages you drink cold or hot (depending on if they start cold or hot, naturally), but they can be heavy and subject to dents and scratches. After you decide what material you want your reusable drinking water bottle to be made of, consider the lid type. Do you want a straw lid, a flip-top spout lid (like a travel mug) or a screw top? Maybe you need a lid that can attach to a backpack with a carabiner or a lid that won't unscrew in your work bag. Read more: 7 ways drinking more water can make you healthier Now playing: Watch this: How to tell if your food is safe to eat 2:14 Also, consider size and design when picking your perfect water bottle. Most companies make their bottles available in a variety of sizes, ranging from 12 to 40 ounces and beyond. Smaller sizes allow for thinner, sleeker designs with a narrow mouth, while larger sizes usually mean a wide-mouth bottle or a juglike design ideal to drink from at all-day events like beach days. I scoured the web for the best water bottle options for the most functional and fashionable reusable water bottles from which to drink. I began my search with brands I already knew created good products, like S'well bottles, though I ended up finding a couple that aren't as evangelized but still create cool products to help you stay hydrated. All of these brands have received multiple customer reviews on Amazon -- the bottles on this list are all in the four-star range with mostly favorable reviews on Amazon (no one can please everyone). From basic bottles to portable pouches to all-day canteens, try replacing your plastic disposable drinking water bottles with one of these reusable models. In the end, it's up to you to decide which is the best water bottle -- and to stay hydrated. Hydro Flask Standard Mouth Best stainless steel water bottle Hydro Flask Hydro Flask exploded in popularity a few years ago and has stayed at the top of the water bottle totem pole due to its double insulated design, durable stainless steel materials and fun variety of colors. Hydro Flask bottles keep liquids cool for up to 24 hours and hot beverages warm up to 12 hours. They're tough enough to toss into bags and survive the hustle and bustle of your days (stainless steel, remember?), and Hydro Flask vacuum-insulated bottles resist condensation, so the outside of your bottle will stay dry when you drink. This bottle comes with a standard lid and spout, but you can always mix and match to make the best water bottle for yourself. $33 at Amazon Pressa Bottle Best for fruit-infused water Pressa Bottle Some people love drinking tap water plain. Some think it's the most boring liquid to have ever graced this planet, despite it being essential to human survival. I am one of the latter, which is why I love Pressa Bottle, the water bottle with a built-in juicer. It's great for on-the-go folks who want fruit-infused water but don't want to deal with (or forget to make) a whole pitcher full at home. All you have to do is put your fruit of choice in the juicer and twist the dial on top. This reusable glass bottle has a silicone sleeve (the silicone sleeve helps your grip) and comes apart for an easy clean. You can also safely clean your Pressa Bottle in the dishwasher. $39 at Amazon Platypus Platy Ultralight Collapsible Best water bottle for hiking Tad Martin/CNET Previously, we listed the Platypus Platy Ultralight Collapsible as the best portable water bottle for backpacking, but since then, Platypus has come out with the Platypus DuoLock Soft Bottle 1.0 L -- a sturdier, more stylish version of the Ultralight Collapsible. The DuoLock Soft Bottle has a built-in carabiner, making it perfect for clearing up space in a hiking backpack: Just clip it on outside instead of stuffing it in. You can choose from one liter or two, but in my own hiking experience, I've found that one liter is sufficient unless you're heading out for a full day-long trek. $16 at Amazon Grayl Geopress Purifier Best filtered water bottle for outdoors Grayl The Grayl Geopress Purifier filters out 99.99% of bacteria, viruses, protozoa and sediment. It holds a standard amount of water (24 ounces); it's incredibly durable; and it's easy to clean -- a really big deal as heavy-duty filtered water bottles are notoriously difficult to clean. I tested the Grayl Geopress Purifier along with five other filtered water bottles, and the Geopress struck me as the safest and the best investment for outdoor use. $90 at Amazon Contigo Purity Glass Water Bottle Best glass water bottle Amanda Capritto/CNET Glass is non-toxic, doesn't seep chemicals and doesn't degrade over time, making it a great alternative to plastic. The body of this Contigo bottle is made entirely of glass, while the protective outer layer is silicone and the cap is stainless steel. The outer silicone sleeve makes this bottle extra grippy (no broken glass!), and it's top-rack dishwasher-safe. I've owned many a Contigo bottle and this Purity glass one stood up to the brand's reputation of making long-lasting, stylish, functional bottles. It's also one of the least expensive bottle on this list; quite honestly, I don't know how Contigo even profits off of such inexpensive bottles, especially when they seem to be high-quality and durable. But hey, I'm not complaining about a great reusable water bottle for just $15. $15 at Amazon Klean Kanteen 20 oz Insulated Reflect Best environmentally friendly water bottle Amanda Capritto/CNET All of Klean Kanteen's water bottles are environmentally friendly thanks to the company's patented chip-resistant, durable finish called Klean Coat. But the Klean Kanteen 20-ounce Reflect vacuum insulated bottle is especially environmentally friendly, made from just three materials: stainless steel, food-grade silicone and bamboo. It has no paint, ink, coatings or plastic. It's easy to carry with a nice loop handle, and the bottle is rather elegant in its simplicity. Despite lacking the insulated coating that most stainless steel bottles have, Insulated Reflect is still double-wall vacuum-insulated and it kept my water cold for as long as I needed it to. Hot drinks and hot liquids aren't recommended because of the steel bamboo cap. $43 at Amazon S’well Roamer Our large water bottle pick Amanda Capritto/CNET The insulated, stainless steel Roamer from S'well keeps a whopping 64 ounces of water cold and delicious even when it's hot out. I took this bottle on a 9-mile hike and it lasted me until the end. It was a hot day, so there were no actual ice pieces left, but the water was still ice-cold. Made from food-grade stainless steel, S'well insulated bottles are perfect for long, hot beach days and for those who just don't feel like refilling their bottle several times a day. Because it holds 40 or 64 ounces and is made of stainless steel, it can get pretty heavy when it's full. Depending on your preferences, you might not want this one for hiking or walking around. It's definitely not the easiest way to carry water on a hike, but overall, I didn't mind toting it. $75 at S'well Best filtered water bottle for tap water Astrea One Paige Thies/CNET I also tested the Astrea One water bottle for our list of best filtered water bottles for 2020, and while I wouldn't recommend using this one with natural freshwater, it works wonders on tap water, filtering out lead, benzene, mercury, copper, chlorine and more. It also has a great design that's sturdy, durable and easy to clean. $40 at Amazon Que bottle Best collapsible water bottle Tad Martin/CNET The Que bottle might be the most adorable water bottle I've ever used. Made only of silicone and stainless steel, this bottle collapses down to half its size when empty -- perfect for anyone who's always trying to crunch space in their bag. The Que bottle is also dishwasher safe, BPA-free and 100% plastic-free. Flexible and durable, this bottle can withstand drops and falls, and bounces back to its normal size and shape even after being totally smushed. $26 at Amazon CrazyCap Gen 2 Best self-cleaning water bottle CrazyCap In another category of reusable water bottles that zap away dirt and pathogens, self-cleaning water bottles use UV-C light to decontaminate water. I tested three self-cleaning UV-C water bottles and the CrazyCap Gen 2 produced the best taste and has the best suite of functions: It has a normal purification mode for tap water and a "Crazy Mode" for freshwater; an autoclean function; and a slender design that makes it great for taking along in the car and slipping into bags. $69 at CrazyCap Pathwater Best when you're in a pinch Amanda Capritto/CNET Try as we might, it's not always possible to avoid a gas station run-in for a bottle of water. Maybe you forgot your reusable water bottle or you did bring it, but you're in the middle of nowhere and need a clean refill. Enter: Pathwater. Pathwater is first 100% reusable, recyclable bottled water in an aluminum bottle. You can find it at gas stations and convenience stores (use the store locator) and it only costs $2 to $3, depending on the location. The water that comes in these bottles is just as good, if not better, than any water you'd get in a plastic bottle, and they are endlessly reusable and recyclable. I stocked my fridge with a case of Pathwater in four months ago and have been using the same set since. Even if you don't reuse a Pathwater bottle, it takes five times less energy to recycle than a plastic bottle of the same size, according to the Pathwater website. See at Pathwater Read more: Go greener with these cool eco-friendly products The best self-cleaning water bottles for tastier tap water in 2020 Best filtered water bottles in 2020 to remove bacteria, sediment and more 7 best yoga mats for 2020 Originally published earlier and updated as new products become available. The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Notification on Notification off Health and Wellness Close Discuss: The best water bottles in 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.