https://www.cnet.com/news/is-the-apple-tv-officially-a-flop-or-how-to-fix-apple-tv/
Is the Apple TV officially a flop? (Or: How to fix Apple TV) - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Is the Apple TV officially a flop? (Or: How to fix Apple TV) Forbes magazine calls the Apple TV an "iFlop," and details why the product will never measure up to the success of the iPod. John Falcone September 29, 2007 12:44 PM PDT Compared to the iPod and iPhone, the Apple TV's gotten a tepid response. CNET It's been online for a few days now, but I just spotted (via PaidContent) Forbes' article titled The iFlop (subhead: "Steve Jobs tried to design--and dictate--the future of television. Here's how he failed.") Author Scott Woolley calls the Apple TV "a flat-out" failure, claiming that it's sold less than 250,000 units in six months. Among the supposed sins of the product: the lack of a built-in DVR and a "parochial and proprietary approach" to online video content. He also highlights a variety of on-demand video competitors, including Vudu, TiVo (via Amazon Unbox), and Xbox 360 (which offers rentals and sales of TV shows via the Xbox Live Marketplace)--while glossing over many of their shortcomings. Still, is he right? Is the Apple TV dead in the water? When I reviewed the Apple TV in March, I gave it a "very good," thanks mostly to its dead-simple setup and easy usability--traits rarely seen in the network media space. (The aforementioned Vudu box and Sling Media's Slingbox products are two notable exceptions.) But the positive slant was within the context of the Apple TV's purported mission statement: to deliver iTunes content to your TV. I assumed that frequent firmware updates would add additional features and functionality, but the only improvement so far has been the addition of YouTube videos. Nice, but not exactly a game changer. (The company also introduced a second model with a much larger, 160GB hard drive , for $100 more.) So while Woolley's "iFlop" description is something of a hyperbole, the essence does ring true: the Apple TV doesn't have the "gotta have it" appeal of the iPod. In its current configuration, I certainly wouldn't spend money to buy one. What would it take to change that? I can think of quite a few suggestions: Better video quality: Movies and TV shows sold on the iTunes Store are optimized for the small screens of the iPod and iPhone. Blow them up on a big screen, and they look plain awful. Apple's trying to keep down the file sizes to minimize download time and maximize the memory capacity of its increasingly flash-based iPod line. Microsoft and Vudu are offering videos with far better quality (DVD to HD, often with surround sound). Apple needs to follow suit--especially considering that the Apple TV is designed to connect high-definition sets. On-screen iTunes Store access: As of this month, the iTunes Store is available directly through iPod Touch and iPhone models (albeit for music only). But Apple TV purchases still need to be done on a networked computer, then streamed to the unit. An on-screen version of the iTunes Store would be a much more convenient and intuitive experience. Until then, Vudu, Xbox, and TiVo have an edge. A rental option: TV shows for $2 isn't bad, but paying DVD prices for movies with sub-par video and audio quality is a tough sell. A rental program would be a nice alternative (again: Vudu, Xbox, and TiVo already offer this). Rumors of just such an offering have intensified over the past few weeks. An expanded version of Apple's Multi-Pass would be great for TV shows, as would the ability to rent a movie for a couple bucks. Of course, we'd really love a flat-fee Rhapsody/Netflix-style subscription--but don't keep your fingers crossed. Expanded file compatibility: Apple TV is pretty much limited to streaming what you can see or hear in iTunes, but plenty of people have other videos on their hard drive--DivX, XviD, AVI, WMV, and the like. Other digital media adapters have no trouble with these formats, and we're sure the Apple TV has the processing horsepower to handle them, too. Ideally, adding more robust file compatibility to the unit--and to iTunes--would be the best solution. At the very least, Apple should bundle a free version of QuickTime Pro, so you can more easily convert videos into an iTunes-friendly format. Internet radio support: This one sounds minor, but it's just another one of those little annoyances: Apple supports Internet radio within iTunes, but not on Apple TV. With such a wide variety of stations and formats available from all corners of the globe, having access to those streams in the living room would just be a nice little feather in the Apple TV's cap. There are at least a dozen others I could add, of course, but I'm trying to keep the suggestions within the realm of reality: opening the box to third-party developers, adding an IPTV service, and (especially) turning the thing into a DVR just really isn't in the cards. Also, I wanted to focus on ones that Apple could theoretically add to the existing hardware via software, firmware, and infrastructure (iTunes Store) updates. Everything listed above sounds eminently doable--so here's hoping Apple does it. What do you think? Are you satisfied with Apple TV as is? Do you have your own suggestions for improvement? Or should Apple just go for broke with Apple TV 2.0? Comments Crave Gadgets Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Is the Apple TV officially a flop? (Or: How to fix Apple TV) Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.