https://www.cnet.com/news/tim-cook-says-hes-not-too-worried-about-china-tariffs-on-iphones/
Tim Cook says he isn't too worried about China tariffs on iPhones - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Tim Cook says he isn't too worried about China tariffs on iPhones Apple's CEO also says he's kept a close relationship with the White House. Steven Musil June 4, 2019 3:50 PM PDT Apple CEO Tim Cook says the company's iPhones have managed to avoid being affected by China's tariffs. Josh Miller/CNET Apple CEO Tim Cook says that so far the company's products have managed to escape fallout from President Donald Trump's escalating trade war with China, and he's optimistic it will stay that way. Beijing said in May it would impose a 25% tariff on US goods in retaliation for Trump's plan to increase tariffs on goods imported from China. Analysts forecast the cost of iPhones could increase as much as 14% as a result, but that hasn't happened yet, Cook said in a recent interview. "The Chinese have not targeted Apple at all, and I don't anticipate that happening, to be honest," Cook said in an interview with CBS News, conceding that a tariff on the iPhone would hurt sales of the smartphone. (Disclosure: CBS News is owned by CBS, the parent company of CNET.) "I'm hoping that doesn't happen," he said in the interview. "The truth is, the iPhone is made everywhere. It's made everywhere. And so, a tariff on the iPhone would hurt all of those countries, but the one that would be hurt the most is this one." The Chinese tariffs were announced in retaliation for Trump promising to increase tariffs from 10% to 25% on roughly $200 billion worth of imports from China, a move that many in the technology and telecom sectors have warned will hurt American consumers and businesses.The US tariffs on China went into effect in May despite the administration's continued trade talks with Chinese officials. Cook went on to say he's "proud" to engage regularly with the White House, noting that keeping the lines of communications open helps solve problems. "I don't believe in the 'I disagree with you, and so I don't want to have anything to do with you,'" he said. "The way you stop the polarization is to talk. This is sort of like step one. And I don't want to be part of the problem -- I want to be part of the solution." Cook characterized his discussions with Trump as fairly straightforward, with a lot of back and forth. "He listens to the comments, which I appreciate," Cook said. "Sometimes he doesn't agree, but my philosophy on things is that, you always engage, even when you know that you're gonna wind up on very opposite sides." The interview also touched on the debate over screen time and concerns people are absorbed in their phones rather than in personal interactions. Cook said he receives a weekly report of his iPhone usage, calling the results "pretty profound." The results prompted him to change his habits so that he was less tempted to pick up his device. "We made the phone not so that you'll use it all the time. We made the phone to make your life better," Cook said. "But for me, my simple rule is if I'm looking at the device more than I'm looking into someone's eyes, I'm doing the wrong thing." Cook's interview comes as Apple hosts designers, engineers and developers this week at its annual Worldwide Developers Conference in San Jose, California. During Monday's keynote presentation, Apple's CEO and other top brass introduced new features for iOS 13, a new Mac Pro, a new operating system for the iPad and more. Cook also spoke with O'Donnell about the company's privacy moves and about recent calls to break up Silicon Valley tech giants. When asked whether Apple is too big, Cook said no. Cook told O'Donnell he thinks "the scrutiny is fair," but he said he strongly disagrees with Sen. Elizabeth Warren's call for Apple and other big tech companies to be broken up. CNET's Andrew Morse contributed to this report. Comments Phones Politics Tim Cook Donald Trump Notification on Notification off Apple Close Discuss: Tim Cook says he isn't too worried about China tariffs on iPhones Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.