https://www.cnet.com/news/free-verizon-5g-trial-wireless-broadband-service-faq/
How you can get Verizon's 5G broadband service -- for free - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In How you can get Verizon's 5G broadband service -- for free The company is set to launch a large-scale test of 5G as a home broadband replacement service. Here are the details on getting in the field trial. Roger Cheng February 28, 2017 11:03 AM PST Verizon wants to get 5G into homes soon. Roger Cheng/CNET Who says 5G is all hype? Verizon, after all, is set to launch a field trial of the super-fast service in 11 markets across the US this year. It's not full cellular service like 4G LTE, but instead a replacement for home broadband. It's supposed to be 10 times faster than even Google Fiber, which offers internet connections as fast as 1 gigabit per second. So, it'll be more than sufficient to power all your home browsing needs. And there's actually a chance you could try this service out! Though it's pretty slim: roughly 400 to 500 people will get to take part in the program. The following is breakdown of the service and how you might be able get access to some cutting-edge speeds. What is 5G again? Oh right, you're not a wireless nerd. 5G stands for the fifth-generation of wireless technology and promises to be awesome. Think speeds fast enough to download every episode of "The Simpsons" in half an hour. Beyond that, it's super-responsive, meaning you can do things like remote drive a construction vehicle from another city, and power efficient, so farms can use low-power sensors that run on 5G for 10 years. Wow, give me some of that! Not so fast. The full potential of 5G is years away, with the industry still trying to set common ground rules for everyone to follow. So what's Verizon doing? While the industry waits for 5G to become a real thing, Verizon is using many of the same principles and technologies to offer a home broadband service. The goal is replace your home cable or DSL modem. Why should I care about that? Well, there's the speed. Verizon isn't sure how fast it will go -- it's a test, after all -- but internal trials have shown it go as high as 20 gigabits per second, or 20 times faster than Google Fiber. Also, a wireless connection means no need for a cable repairman to come into your home and drill holes through the walls so they can pull in physical lines (with one exception). Sweet! So where is this service launching? There are 11 markets for the field trials: Ann Arbor, Michigan; Atlanta; Bernardsville, New Jersey; Brockton, Massachusetts; Dallas; Denver; Houston; Miami; Sacramento; Seattle and Washington, DC. But wait, I don't live in any of those markets! Sorry, you're out of luck. So if I'm in those cities, I'm golden right? Not necessarily. Verizon is being selective about where it will roll out its service. It's looking to test 5G in as many different conditions as possible, so that may not necessarily be in your neighborhood. When will Verizon launch its service? Verizon says it will start rolling out the service by the middle of the year. Adam Koeppe, vice president of network technology planning, said the company would begin issuing mailers to potential customers by the end of March. How are people chosen? Koeppe said that mailers would be sent out to people based on where they live and how close they are to the 5G infrastructure. The good news is you don't have to be an existing Verizon landline or wireless customer -- anyone is eligible. Related stories CNET's Mobile World Congress coverage FCC Chairman wants cheaper, faster broadband for all Nokia's nostalgia trap: the hot old-is-new-again 3310 LG G6: 4 reasons you'll want this reason and 2 reasons why you won't If you get one of these mailers, you'll need to respond to Verizon, after which the company will send a sales team to come and explain the service in person. Verizon is looking for a cross section of single-family homes, apartment buildings and businesses. So anyone is eligible as long as they're in the right area. "We want a good mix," Koeppe said. The company is keeping the numbers limited because suppliers Nokia, Ericsson and Samsung are essentially "hand-making" the first run of prototype 5G modems, Koeppe said. What does the installation process look like? Since this is a field test, service technicians will show up to your home or business to set everything up. Koeppe said the 5G modem is larger than your standard cable or DSL box. Because it's picking up a cellular signal, there may be times when Verizon will have to add an extra antenna outside of the home. So there may be some drilling after all. And this is free? Yep. The service will be free throughout the trial, which should run through the duration of the year. It's Complicated: This is dating in the age of apps. Having fun yet? These stories get to the heart of the matter. Batteries Not Included: The CNET team reminds us why tech is cool. Mobile World Congress 2020 See All • reading How you can get Verizon's 5G broadband service -- for free • Mar 12 I got a peek at what your 5G-enabled AR home office could look like • Feb 27 LG's V60 ThinQ phone sees double in blue and white • Feb 26 Hands-on LG V60 ThinQ: 5G with 8K video and dual-screen • Feb 25 New details on Qualcomm's 5G VR prototypes: Cloud rendering, eye tracking, high-res displays Comments Mobile World Congress 2020 Mobile Verizon Notification on Notification off Verizon wireless Close Discuss: How you can get Verizon's 5G broadband service -- for free Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.