https://www.cnet.com/news/this-is-the-gear-you-need-to-work-from-home/
This is the gear you need to work from home - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. This is the gear you need to work from home Whether you're hiding out from the coronavirus or work remotely full-time, here's what you need to stay comfortable and productive. Justin Jaffe March 21, 2020 3:10 PM PDT Stand up for yourself Readydesk standing desk Jump to details $150 at Amazon Turn your laptop into a desktop Apple Magic keyboard (and Magic Mouse 2) Jump to details $119 at Amazon Expand your screen real estate 27-inch HP Pavilion 27xw LED monitor Jump to details $200 at Amazon Take that laptop off your lap AmazonBasics ventilated adjustable laptop stand Jump to details $21 at Amazon Boost the production values of online meetings Logitech C920S HD webcam Jump to details $70 at Best Buy No need for headphones Bose SoundLink Mini II Jump to details $199 at Amazon When you need to shut out the world Plantronics BackBeat Pro 2 Jump to details $180 at Amazon Step up your coffee game Bonavita Connoisseur Jump to details $140 at Amazon Keep your coffee hot The Ember Mug Jump to details $90 at Walmart Spend your commute time in the kitchen Dinnerly Jump to details See at Dinnerly Stay home and watch movies Disney Plus Jump to details $7 at Disney Plus Show more (6 items) For the most up-to-date news and information about the coronavirus pandemic, visit the WHO website. Now that the coronavirus and COVID-19 have been labeled a pandemic, and the US has declared a national emergency, more people will be working remotely for the foreseeable future. Working from home doesn't have to mean sitting on the couch with your laptop balanced on a book. You can quickly and easily set up a productive office space with just your computer and an internet connection. A comfortable chair, natural light and dearth of distractions can be more conducive to productivity and tackling your to-do list than a traditional office space anyway! As someone who's been among an army of remote workers for a long time, I've rounded up the gear and services that have made working from home comfortable and productive for me. And now that CNET has moved much of its staff to working from home, I've solicited suggestions from other remote workers and editors about their top picks, too. Coronavirus updates FDA warns at-home coronavirus tests are unauthorized and fraudulent Zoom has been a chaotic beacon of light during the coronavirus lockdown FBI says beware of stimulus-package scams Snowden says government surveillance amid COVID-19 could be long lasting The must-haves are apparent; you'll want a full-size keyboard, a wireless mouse and an external monitor. But there's a handful of other gear, gadgets and services that can make the experience just as good -- if not better -- than working at an office. Our recommendations are below. CNET Coronavirus Update Get all the latest on the coronavirus that's now been declared a pandemic. Now playing: Watch this: Pandemic: Here's what's changed about the coronavirus 5:54 Read more: How to protect yourself from coronavirus Stand up for yourself Readydesk standing desk Readydesk Whether you're in an office or working from home, sitting all day is not good, even if you have an ergonomic office chair. This wooden workspace desk elevator comes with two height-adjustable shelves and has enough space to hold two 27-inch monitors (or one monitor and a desk lamp, file folders, sticky notes or anything else you need to work). The adjustable desk is sized to fit people between 5 feet, 3 inches and 6 feet, 3 inches, and you can add an additional shelf or a laptop rise to the desk if you need the space. Need more choices? Check out our favorite standing desk converters. $150 at Amazon Turn your laptop into a desktop Apple Magic keyboard (and Magic Mouse 2) Sarah Tew/CNET I'm a dedicated Apple MacBook Air user, and when I'm working from home, I'm typing on Apple's roomy Magic Keyboard -- the one with the numeric extension. It has the old-school Mac keyboard design and space, with the pleasing scissor key mechanism, and it's wireless, connecting via Bluetooth. Best of all, the battery, which is rechargeable via USB, lasts for many months on a charge. (I also love Apple's Magic Mouse 2 for the same reasons.) $119 at Amazon You can use Apple's peripherals with Windows machines, but if you're looking for an alternative Bluetooth keyboard that will work with anything from Windows PCs to Macs to iPads to phones, the Logitech K380 (about $30) is a great choice. Pair it with up to three devices, and toggle between each of them with the click of a button. See the K380 at Amazon And if you're willing to shell out $130 for a more ergonomic solution, CNET's Josh Goldman strongly recommends the Logitech Ergo K860. See the K860 at Amazon Expand your screen real estate 27-inch HP Pavilion 27xw LED monitor Amazon This isn't a new monitor -- I've been using mine for about five years -- but it's stood the test of time. For $200, you get an attractive 27-inch monitor with Full HD resolution (1,920x1,080 pixels), all of the brightness that comes with LED backlighting and a super slim bezel. There are two HDMI inputs, and even a VGA input if you're keeping things old-school. There are no speakers on this monitor but, for me, the major drawback is that the Pavilion 27xw isn't height-adjustable. But that's easily addressed with a monitor stand (see our picks below) or thick book. If that's a deal-breaker for you (or you don't have the space), check out the Dell UltraSharp U215, which is smaller and more expensive but comes equipped with a height-adjustable stand. Or you could get a second monitor specifically fro your laptop. $200 at Amazon Read more: 5 monitors to upgrade your home workspace Take that laptop off your lap AmazonBasics ventilated adjustable laptop stand Amazon It's all about the ergonomics when it comes to office furniture and accessories, and a good laptop stand will bring your display up to eye level and help you sit up straighter. CNET's Lori Grunin says she uses this adjustable laptop stand everywhere -- whether working from the couch, sitting at a desk or laying in bed. And the ventilated design has safety benefits, too. In her words: "When Windows wakes my system up in the middle of the night to force an update, and leaves it on afterwards, I don't have to worry about the system overheating and setting the bed on fire or destroying the laptop." Better safe than sorry. $21 at Amazon And if you're looking for a laptop stand for your desktop workspace, we like this simple design from AmazonBasics that costs $20. Boost the production values of online meetings Logitech C920S HD webcam Joshua Goldman/CNET Given the risks currently associated with in-person meetings, web conferences and online meetings will increasingly become the norm for people working remotely. This reasonably priced Logitech webcam will deliver higher quality images and sound than the camera and mic integrated in your laptop. You get 2 megapixels, 1080p video and a 78-degree field of view, which will accommodate two people sitting side-by-side. It also has a built-in privacy shutter so you don't need to cover the lens with electrical tape to keep prying eyes at bay. $70 at Best Buy No need for headphones Bose SoundLink Mini II Sarah Tew One of the benefits of remote work is that there's no one to complain about your musical choices or preferred volume level. The Bose SoundLink Mini II is one of the best compact wireless speakers, with an excellent design, strong sound, great features -- including a built-in microphone for speakerphone capabilities -- and solid battery life. I think its current $150-ish price is well worth it, but if you want something cheaper, there are plenty of solid Bluetooth speakers for $60 or less. Read our Bose SoundLink Mini II review. $199 at Amazon When you need to shut out the world Plantronics BackBeat Pro 2 Sarah Tew/CNET If you end up in a coffee shop or your kids invade your office and you really need to tune out distractions, noise-canceling headphones are a good way to maintain focus. Plantronics isn't as cool a brand as Beats or Bose, but the BackBeat Pro 2 provide excellent wireless noise canceling and they cost considerably less than comparable models from those other companies. They're also really comfortable to wear, sound great on phone calls and are smart enough to pause whatever you're listening to when you take them off. But if you need more options -- including AirPods-style true wireless models -- check out our list of best noise-canceling headphones. Read our Plantronics BackBeat Pro 2 review. $180 at Amazon Step up your coffee game Bonavita Connoisseur Chris Monroe/CNET When you work from home, making coffee becomes a sacramental practice. Despite its snobby name, the Connoisseur from Bonavita is the best automatic drip coffee maker you can buy for the least amount of cash. It reliably brews full pots of great coffee that rival what you would get from your favorite coffee shop or barista, and it's a cinch to use. With easy, one-touch operation, the Bonavita has a 1,500-watt heating element that maintains optimal brewing temperature of 198 to 205 degrees Fahrenheit. This perfect coffee maker also has a 1.3-liter water reservoir, works fast, and has all the bells and whistles including a stainless steel-lined thermal carafe. It's also a snap to keep clean, with a removable, dishwasher-safe filter basket and carafe lid. And it's all in the name of productivity, right? Read our Bonavita BV 1900TS review. $140 at Amazon Keep your coffee hot The Ember Mug Sarah Tew/CNET The Ember has become an essential part of my morning coffee ritual. The concept is simple: A porcelain mug that keeps your coffee at the perfect temperature -- technically, 130 degrees, though that's adjustable via the iOS- and Android-compatible app -- for a little more than an hour. It's expensive -- and not everyone thinks it's worth it -- but I use this thing every day. Read our Ember Ceramic Mug preview. $90 at Walmart Spend your commute time in the kitchen Dinnerly Dinnerly When you're not commuting, there may be some more time for dinner prep. Dinnerly rolls out some pretty exciting-sounding and delicious meals such as summery chicken panzanella and risotto with asparagus and cannellini beans. But with no more than six ingredients per recipe, the damage done to your time and kitchen is minimized. Along with not overwhelming you with myriad ingredients and multiple steps, the price tag for Dinnerly puts it squarely in the budget-friendly category, clocking in with a cost per serving of around $5. The subscription options include a Two-Person Box for $30, or a Family Box for $60, each with three recipes for the week. Looking for more options? Check out our list of best mealkit services. See at Dinnerly Stay home and watch movies Disney Plus Disney Plus Assuming you already have Netflix, this is a good time to explore other online streaming options. One of the biggest services to launch in some time, Disney has gathered a mix of movies, TV shows and exclusive content, including the Star Wars show The Mandalorian, for $6.99 a month. $7 at Disney Plus Health and Wellness See All • reading This is the gear you need to work from home • Mar 27 How to effectively clean the inside of your car if you're worried about COVID-19 • Mar 20 Google sibling Verily: Coronavirus website has led to over 130 tests so far • Mar 20 Google I/O is fully canceled, after earlier nixing the in-person event Comments Health and Wellness Computers Monitors Bluetooth Headsets Computer Accessories Printers Small Appliances Wireless & Bluetooth Speakers Streaming Services Health and Wellness Disney Plus Coronavirus Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: This is the gear you need to work from home Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.