https://www.cnet.com/news/our-favorite-food-and-drink-advent-calendars-for-2019/
The best food and drink advent calendars to order right now - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. The best food and drink advent calendars to order right now From wine and cheese to beer and pork rinds, these go way beyond chocolate. Jen Wheeler December 5, 2019 7:14 AM PST Bonne Maman Advent calendars have come a long way since the days when they seemed exclusively comprised of stale milk chocolate. From cheese and pork rinds to wine and beer, our favorite 2019 advent calendars are filled with food and drink items that you actually want to consume and make thoughtful gifts for friends and family. Now that the holiday shopping season is in full swing, consider ordering them as soon as possible in order to get it to them in time for you and your giftees to actually count down the days until Christmas. (Note that prices don't include shipping and handling.) Read more: Chic home bar gifts under $100 in 2019 | The best food and drink experiences to gift this holiday 2019 | Best gifts for foodies in 2019 | Great gifts for coffee lovers Cyber Monday 2019 Cyber Monday 2019: The best deals so far on TVs, speakers, laptops and more Cyber Monday 2019: The best deals at Walmart right now Cyber Monday 2019: The best deals at Amazon right now Cyber Monday 2019: The best deals at Best Buy right now Cyber Monday 2019: The ultimate guide to the best deals at Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy and more CNET editors' 2019 holiday picks 19 Photos 12 Nights of Wine For oenophiles Vinebox This year, wine subscription service Vinebox is offering two versions of their one-off wine advent calendar: Naughty and Nice. Either way, you get 12 glasses of wine -- a mix of red and white -- expertly curated, originating from locations around the world, all in a sleek, sophisticated package. Or you can get both boxes of these advent calendars for adults and get 15% off. Wine not make the festive season more festive? $129 at Vinebox Aldi wine For oenophiles who live near an Aldi Aldi If you're near an Aldi grocery store, good news: It's bringing back its popular wine advent calendar! This one features a mix of red, white and bubbly in 24 miniature bottles. This is an in-store only item, which you can grab while you're stocking up on our favorite November Aldi finds. And note that Aldi also sells advent calendars for beer, chocolate, cheese and dog treats. You can find them in stores starting Nov. 6, but there's a limit of two (for alcohol) or three (for cheese) per person. Once they're sold out, that's it. $70 at Aldi Bonne Maman preserves For jelly lovers Bonne Maman With 24 adorably petite jars of different limited-edition jams and jellies (plus honey), all of which are free of high fructose corn syrup and all-natural, this is perfect to countdown the days for any toast lover on your list -- or, you know, yourself. There's a mix of both new and classic flavors, including purple fig and cinnamon, blueberry-blackcurrant, pear and mirabelle plum, strawberry-verbena, raspberry-lychee and even grapefruit-dragonfruit. This sold out fast last year and is temporarily out of stock at World Market, but you can sign up to be notified when/if it becomes available again! $35 at World Market Ilchester cheese For cheeseheads So Wrong It's Nom Savory advent calendars are fairly rare, but this one would be special even if they weren't. It's made with five varieties of fine cheese -- like smoky Applewood British cheddar and creamy Ilchester Wensleydale studded with sweet-tart cranberries -- that are all suitable for vegetarians. In the US, it will again be available at select Target stores, as well as Supervalu, Sprouts, Schnucks, Meijer, Jewel, Lidl and Publix locations, starting in November. $20 at So Wong It's Nom Jerky advent calendar For committed carnivores Man Crates What goes better with wine and cheese than cured meat? This advent calendar from Man Crates contains 25 different flavors of jerky, from honey bourbon and whiskey maple to garlic and Sriracha flavors -- most made from beef, with some more exotic varieties including elk, bison, wild boar, venison and alligator in the mix. It's sure to herald a merry, meaty Christmas for your favorite carnivore. $80 at Man Crates 12 Days of Christmas gift tower For folks with a sweet-tooth Harry and David This delightful wooden gift box looks like a stack of presents -- and each of the 12 drawers contains a different candy treat such as Moose Munch, chocolate-covered cherries, truffles, mints and malt balls. And once the confections are gone, the box can be reused for years to come. $80 at Harry and David 12 Days of Moose Munch Double down on the sweet popcorn Harry and David If all you care about is the Moose Munch -- and who could blame you? -- this merry, wreath-bedecked advent calendar contains a dozen different flavors of the sweet gourmet popcorn mix, including dark chocolate salted caramel, white chocolate Cinnabon, dark chocolate peppermint bark and mint chocolate with candy trees. $35 at Harry and David Charbonnel et Walker chocolate Truffles and bon bons, baby Nordstrom's Open the double doors of this theater-inspired advent calendar to reveal a grand assortment of rich truffles and bonbons from the luxury English chocolatier Charbonnel et Walker, known for its couverture dark chocolate since 1875. $75 at Nordstrom's Godiva chocolate The traditional choice Macy's For a more gently priced option, you can't go wrong with Godiva. Everyone knows it. Everyone loves it. And it's packed into a charmingly illustrated advent calendar that'll make you smile, even before you open any of the little windows to retrieve a piece of creamy chocolate. $30 at Macy's Vegan chocolate All chocolate, no animal products No Whey! Foods Chocolate advent calendars are the most prevalent of the edibles, but, sadly, most of them aren't vegan-friendly. But this one is -- and it's also gluten-free and allergy-friendly. The vegan chocolates are each adorned with a different holiday design. $15 at No Whey! Foods The 25 hot sauces of Christmas For the hot-heads Amazon Have a hothead in your life? Or maybe that's you? This advent calendar comes jam-packed with 25 different mini bottles of hot sauce that are sure to kindle a warm glow of happiness (and capsaicin) this season. $80 at Amazon 24 Days of tea For fans of tea time David's Tea Tea lovers, look no further. This advent calendar features 24 different teas -- from bestselling blends and throwback favorites to web exclusives and sneak peeks of new varieties. And you get two servings of each, so you can share a sip with someone you love or just double up your own cup. $40 at David's Tea Heritage Distilling Co.'s spirits A stiff drink for each day Heritage Distilling Co. For those who prefer their good cheer in stronger liquid form, this calendar conceals a variety of bourbons (including a brown sugar variety), rye whiskey, gin and a few flavored vodkas. Due to state laws, they can't ship everywhere, but check their list because you might be in luck. And if you're not, consider buying a DIY advent calendar and adding your own mini bottles. $59 at Heritage Distilling Co. Joe & Seph's gourmet popcorn For the discerning popcorn lover Joe & Seph's Popcorn The charming snowy Victorian storefront conceals 12 different flavors of popcorn including salted caramel, toffee apple and cinnamon, banoffee pie, raspberry cheesecake, double chocolate and cookies and cream. And none of them contain artificial flavors, colors or preservatives. But all of them are suitable for vegetarians. It's made in the UK, but the company will ship to the US and Canada. $32 at Joe & Seph's British Corner Shop's Snaffling Pig Pork Crackling Crunchy pig skin snacks The Snaffling Pig If your cravings are more carnivorous, check out this amazing pork crackling advent calendar. It's filled with 24 mini bags of crunchy pig skin snacks in six different flavors -- Pigs in Blankets, Low and Slow BBQ, Maple, Black Pepper, Salt 'n' Vinegar and Perfectly Salted. $23 at British Corner Shop Bosco & Roxy's Bark the Halls dog treats For our furry friends World Market There's no reason to leave your best four-legged friend out of the advent calendar tradition. This dog treat advent calendar hides 24 handmade applesauce and peanut dog biscuits that will delight your fur-child. And if you want to lavish them with even more affection, get them a pet food delivery subscription for Christmas. Because even dogs don't want another sweater. Not to be outdone, Trader Joe's will be selling advent calendars for cats. $25 at World Market CNET Holiday Gift Guide 2019 Holiday gift guide 2019: CNET editors' top picks Stocking stuffers: Best tech gifts under $25 Best holiday gifts for under $50 Best holiday gifts under $100 for 2019 Best holiday gifts under $250 for 2019 Best holiday gifts under $500 for 2019 Now playing: Watch this: How to win Black Friday and Cyber Monday in 2019 2:25 The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Notification on Notification off Health and Wellness Close Discuss: The best food and drink advent calendars to order right now Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.