https://www.cnet.com/news/google-io-is-fully-canceled-after-earlier-nixing-the-in-person-event/
Google I/O is fully canceled, after earlier nixing the in-person event - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Google I/O is fully canceled, after earlier nixing the in-person event The cancellation is in line with "shelter in place" policies over the coronavirus. Richard Nieva March 20, 2020 1:18 PM PDT Listen - 01:40 Google is fully canceling its I/O developer conference. James Martin/CNET For the most up-to-date news and information about the coronavirus pandemic, visit the WHO website. Google on Friday said it won't hold I/O, its biggest event of the year, "in any capacity," even after previously canceling the in-person portion of the event. The announcement comes as government, business and community leaders have made an increased effort to stop the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The annual developer conference, which was scheduled for May 12-14, would have been held at the Shoreline Amphitheater in Mountain View, California. When the physical event was canceled earlier this month, Google said it would "explore other ways to evolve" the conference, presumably with live streams or satellite events. But Google fully called it off Friday. The company said the decision is in line with a "shelter in place" requirement in the San Francisco Bay Area, in which people must stay home, but are allowed to go out for essential needs. On Thursday, California Gov. Gavin Newsom issued a statewide stay at home order until further notice. A #GoogleIO update: Out of concern for the health and safety of our developers, employees, and local communities — and in line with “shelter in place” requirements by the local Bay Area government — we sadly will not be holding an I/O event in any capacity this year. (1/3) — Google Developers (@googledevs) March 20, 2020 "Right now, the most important thing all of us can do is focus our attention on helping people with the new challenges we all face," the company said in a tweet. "We'll continue to do everything we can to help our communities stay safe, informed, and connected." Google I/O, which last year drew more than 7,000 attendees, is the company's most important gathering each year. CEO Sundar Pichai's keynote speech, in which he talks about Google's current efforts and priorities, is akin to a state of the union address from the tech giant. In recent years, Google has made its biggest announcements at the show, including the introduction of the Google Assistant, the Google Home smart speaker and Google Glass eyewear. On Friday, though, Google said it will still share updates to its Android operating system through blogs and community forums. The search giant also said earlier this week that it's postponing its Cloud Next conference that was set for next month, even after earlier making it digital only. Health and Wellness See All • reading Google I/O is fully canceled, after earlier nixing the in-person event • Mar 27 How to effectively clean the inside of your car if you're worried about COVID-19 • Mar 21 This is the gear you need to work from home • Mar 20 Google sibling Verily: Coronavirus website has led to over 130 tests so far Comments Health and Wellness Tech Industry Coronavirus Alphabet Inc. Notification on Notification off Google Close Discuss: Google I/O is fully canceled, after earlier nixing the in-person event Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.