https://www.cnet.com/news/the-best-mobile-apps-because-your-phone-is-worth-it/
The best mobile apps: Because your phone is worth it - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In The best mobile apps: Because your phone is worth it Tired of thinking your phone is rubbish compared to an iPhone? Don't throw it out the window just yet -- you could breathe new life into it by downloading a few of these mobile apps Andrew Lim March 28, 2008 3:31 AM PDT Instead of crying over not being able to afford an iPhone, you need to sort your old phone out with some rejuvenating apps and services. We've compiled a list of some of our favourites -- give them a go and see which ones have you caressing your phone like when you popped it out of its box for the first time. Let us know which is your favourite or if we've missed any in comments below, or discuss it in our forums. The must-have apps We don't just like these apps, we think you that if you own a smart phone you have to download them. You're doing your phone a disservice otherwise -- it'd be like taking your girlfriend for a slapup dinner at Little Chef. We'd go as far as saying these programs have changed our lives -- but don't take our word for it, download them now and start living the dream. Opera Mini Opera Mini is a brilliant free-to-download mobile Internet browser that lets you surf the Web in a similar way to your PC's browser, using a few sneaky tricks to overcome your phone's hardware limitations. Instead of cramming a full-sized page on to your little screen, it cleverly presents an overview of a page and you can easily zoom in and out. If you'd like to give it a go, visit operamini.com using your phone's existing Web browser and follow the on-screen instructions. Google Maps Google may be a search leviathan, but it's also brilliant at making mobile apps. One of its best programs has to be Google Maps for mobile phones, which offers almost everything you get from Google Maps on your computer, including directions. You can even view streets in satellite mode and use your phone's GPS to tell you exactly where you are. If you don't have GPS, it brilliantly uses nearby mobile towers to establish an approximate location. It's much less accurate than using the GPS mode, but still very handy if you're completely lost. You can get it for your phone by clicking here and entering your number or visiting google.co.uk/gmm on your phone's browser. The 'just in case' apps You don't need these, but you might find them very useful when it all goes wrong. Whether you've lost your phone or you're trying to find out the number of the local police station, these two services will keep you calm when it all goes Pete Tong. Mobyko Losing your phone can be devastating, especially if you haven't backed up any of its content. There's no need to get caught out -- Mobyko allows you to backup contacts, text messages, pictures and videos to the Internet. It's very easy to use and comes with a few extras we find really useful, such as being able to text message people straight from your PC's Web browser. This means you can use a proper keyboard -- it even sends the texts using your mobile number, so there's no confusion. Mobyko charges for this, but you can buy bundles to reduce the cost per message. Mobyko has been kind enough to offer CNET.co.uk readers a premium account worth £25 for free. Premium users get 100 free texts to send from any computer, extra storage space for photos, videos & texts and VIP customer support, including 24/7 online help. All you have to do to take advantage of this offer is enter the word CNET where it says, "Do you have a promo code?" on the Mobyko homepage, when you join. Texperts 66000 Knowledge is power, and Texperts is the power station. It's not strictly an app, but it is very simple: you text a question to 66000 and in a few minutes (or more depending on how hard the question is), you'll get an answer. Similar to AQA, Texperts will answer practically anything and what's great about the service is you won't get charged if they can't answer the question, or if you say thank you once they've answered it. The only time Texperts charges you is when you get the answer. Texperts is kindly giving away two free questions to CNET.co.uk readers. All you have to do is start them with CNET and then your question, for example, text "CNET Where can I buy a Sony Ericsson W890i online?" to 66000. This offer only applies to new customers, so if you've already used Texperts in the past, you will be charged. The 'because I like it' apps You won't be had up for mobile phone cruelty if you don't download these apps, but we like them, so we thought you would too. Who knows? You might end up finding these puppies must-haves. Fring If you're anything like the Crave crew you'll like to reach your buddies 24/7 via an instant message client or VoIP. Lugging your desktop around with you isn't an option, but Fring will sort you out. It's a mobile app that gives you access to almost every IM client and lets you make VoIP calls over Google Talk or Skype. It's easy to setup and easy to use, but we especially like that it lets you choose from a variety of chat clients. Whether you use MSN Messenger, Google Talk, Yahoo Messenger or even Twitter, Fring lets you keep in touch using your mobile phone and a data connection. You can download Fring by visiting the Fring Web site and entering your phone number and model. Shozu Assuming you like all things Internet-flavoured, Shozu is a great way of uploading photos and videos to your favourite sites, whether you're a Facebook fanatic or a YouTube starlet. You only need to send an image once and Shozu helpfully does all the gruntwork. So no more fiddling about with complicated mobile login pages, just click and go. It'll even let you do some citizen journalism and upload photos to the BBC or ITV. As with Fring, we particularly like this service because of the level of choice it offers. Give it a go -- visit the Shozu Web site and register your details. Comments Phones Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: The best mobile apps: Because your phone is worth it Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.