https://www.cnet.com/news/iphone-and-now-we-wait-again/
iPhone: And now we wait... again - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In iPhone: And now we wait... again I'm not really sure what was more frustrating: not knowing it was a real product and waiting with anticiaption for a glimmer of truth, or knowing that it is a reality, only not being able to get one for another ten months or more. Andrew Lim January 17, 2007 8:30 AM PST After years of waiting for the iPhone, to my genuine surprise, Apple went ahead and unveiled it at Macworld. It's not that I didn't think it would come out before I was 30, it's just that after so many disappointments and so much empty speculation, I had lost a certain amount of faith. I also didn't completely expect the feature set or design. The iPhone features a widescreen, touch-sensitive display With so many mock-ups flying all over the place, I was intrigued when I realised that it uses a touch screen and that there's no keypad. This is either complete genius or utter madness, so I'm absolutely desperate to try it out and see how good it is. I'm curious about every aspect of this phone but fear that I'll have to wait for some time before I get my hands on it. I'm not really sure what was more frustrating: not knowing it was a real product and waiting with anticipation for a glimmer of truth, or knowing that it is a reality, only not being able to get one for another ten months or more. I think I preferred it when the carrot was in my mind rather than in front of my face. So, as I've done for the past seven years, I'll have to make do with all the speculation and infinite arguments about whether it's good or bad before anyone has actually used it properly. Fortunately, not everyone is taking it too seriously, as shown in this video that kept me laughing for some time and distracted me momentarily from the long wait ahead. Comments Phones Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: iPhone: And now we wait... again Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.