https://www.cnet.com/news/false-information-about-coronavirus-here-are-the-top-rumors-spreading-about-it/
Coronavirus myths: Don't believe these fake reports about the deadly virus - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Coronavirus myths: Don't believe these fake reports about the deadly virus As concern for the virus grows, falsified reports have flooded social media. Mercey Livingston February 14, 2020 2:36 PM PST The coronavirus panic has come with a wave of false reports and posts on social media. Getty Images For the most up-to-date news and information about the coronavirus pandemic, visit the WHO website. The deadly coronavirushas captured the world's attention as the number of people affected continues to rise. As of Feb. 14, 64,000 people have been infected and more than 1,380 have died. The biggest mobile tech show of the year, Mobile World Congress, has been canceled over concerns about the virus. A fear of being infected has led to a rise of various reports and rumors about the spread of coronavirus and how to how to protect yourself from infection. Unfortunately, many of them are harmful or racist and aren't helping protect anyone. Coronavirus updates FDA warns at-home coronavirus tests are unauthorized and fraudulent Zoom has been a chaotic beacon of light during the coronavirus lockdown FBI says beware of stimulus-package scams Snowden says government surveillance amid COVID-19 could be long lasting The false reports so far have made claims about a vaccine, the source of the virus and patents placed on the disease. People are even generating conspiracy theories to capitalize on the panic. Even worse, some are circulating information that's simply racist propaganda disguised as health warnings. The World Health Organization declared the virus a public health emergency of international concern on Thursday, but the internet storm and overall tone of panic in much of the messaging remains unnecessarily alarmist and overwhelming. It's important to understand the facts about the coronavirus, and know how to spot what information is inaccurate so it can be reported and not circulated further. CNET Coronavirus Update Get all the latest on the coronavirus that's now been declared a pandemic. Coronavirus in pictures: Scenes from around the world 63 Photos Fact checkers from 30 countries are currently working to help debunk and prevent the spread of further false information across media platforms. Social media platforms like Facebook are also taking steps to prevent the spread of false information. Facebook has hired three third-party fact-checking organizations to monitor content and help trigger warning labels that users see when they're viewing false information. "Several of our third-party fact-checking partners around the world have rated content false so we are dramatically reducing its distribution and people who see this content, try to share it, or already have, are alerted that it's false," a Facebook spokesperson said. "This situation is fast-evolving and we will continue our outreach to global and regional health organizations to provide support and assistance." A reporter at Bloomberg media pointed out that if you search for "coronavirus" on Twitter, the social media site will direct you to visit the US Centers for Disease Results and Prevention website for information about the illness. One way Twitter hopes to stop misinformation about coronavirus: If you search for the term, the first result is a prompt to visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website pic.twitter.com/RX3vQ1x1si — Kurt Wagner (@KurtWagner8) January 29, 2020 Twitter on Wednesday published a blog post stating its intention to stop the spread of misleading information, and pointing people to credible sources. "We've seen over 15 million tweets on this topic in the past four weeks and that trend looks set to continue," Twitter employees wrote in the statement. Below are some of the trending reports that have popped up online and been proven false. Now playing: Watch this: Pandemic: Here's what's changed about the coronavirus 5:54 Hal Turner Radio show falsely reports how many people are infected and have died from coronavirus Third-party fact checker Lead Stories, one of the third-party fact checkers hired by Facebook, debunked a report that said 2.8 million people are infected and 112,000 are dead. What we do know is that China's National Health Commission has reported that 6,000 citizens are infected and over 130 people have died. Daily Mail video of Chinese woman eating bat soup gives misleading information about the origin of the coronavirus A video and article being circulated from the Daily Mail falsely reports that the coronavirus may be linked to contaminated bat soup. Health officials are investigating a specific meat and seafood market in Wuhan (which does sell bats and snakes) that could be a common connection between those infected, although the first confirmed case could not be linked to this market. Scientists have not confirmed that the disease for sure originated from any specific animal, and certainly not the contaminated soup shown in the viral post. Fake, racist health alert issued in Australia telling people to avoid Chinese-populated areas A fake report issued in Australia warned people to stay away from areas heavily populated by Chinese people. The report circulated from what appeared to be the Queensland Department of Health, and was confirmed as false by the state government. A similar report, apparently from the "Bureau of Diseasology" warned people to stay away from particular Australian train stations and areas known to "contain traces of corona's disease." The Bureau of Diseasology does not exist. There is currently no vaccine for the coronavirus. Getty Images Lead Stories spots a hoax shared on social media claiming a student in Ghana created a vaccine for coronavirus We know that there is no vaccine for this virus, and there likely won't be one for possibly months or years. Since it's a new virus, there has simply not been enough time for scientists to develop one. The site New7pm.com is known by media watchdogs and fact-checking groups like Lead Stories to regularly spread false news and information. Other extreme conspiracy theories are being generated like the false claim that Bill Gates is involved with the outbreak and the seriously dangerous suggestion that people should drink bleach to avoid it. There have also been claims that a virology lab in Wuhan is responsible for the outbreak, based on a logo that appears similar to the one used in zombie video game franchise Resident Evil. Now playing: Watch this: Coronavirus and COVID-19: Everything you need to know 5:50 How to spot legit info vs. falsified reports If you see reports that seem extreme, look suspicious or come from an unfamiliar source, it's important to take time to evaluate the information before you share or buy into it. You should also report the information to the appropriate person (like the platform you found the post on). Facebook has a resource page on how to spot fake news reports or posts that are circulating on the internet. Some of its tips include being careful to evaluate headlines that look extreme or have exclamation points, check for tampered dates or images that look altered and try to cross-verify the news with several other major news outlets. Here's how to report a post on Facebook. The News Literacy Project is another helpful resource, as is this guide from Stony Brook University. If you spot any news reports or posts that you suspect are fake, it's important to report them and not to share them. Another fantastic fact-checking resource is Snopes.com, which has been providing routine updates on some of the more fanciful claims emanating from the web so far. Worth checking out if a claim seems too good to be true. Now playing: Watch this: Deadly coronavirus detected in the US 1:41 Editor's note: This article was originally published on Jan. 29, and has been updated with new stats about the virus. The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Health and Wellness Sci-Tech Coronavirus Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: Coronavirus myths: Don't believe these fake reports about the deadly virus Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.