https://www.cnet.com/news/zte-gets-a-deal-with-the-us-that-brings-it-back-from-the-brink/
ZTE gets a deal with the US that brings it back from the brink - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In ZTE gets a deal with the US that brings it back from the brink Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross says this phase of the confrontation is done. Sean Keane June 7, 2018 11:09 AM PDT Chinese telecom giant ZTE said its major operations had ceased following last month's US ban on American sales of critical technology to the company. Johannes Eisele / AFP/Getty Images The US has struck a deal with ZTE, resolving a controversy that had put the Chinese telecom giant in peril. The deal includes a $1 billion penalty against ZTE and a compliance team, chosen by the US, will be embedded at the company, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross told CNBC Thursday morning. It also requires ZTE to change its board of directors and executive team in 30 days. "At about 6 a.m. this morning, we executed a definitive agreement with ZTE. And that brings to a conclusion this phase of the development with them," Ross said. The compliance team will be in place for 10 years and monitor "on a real-time basis" ZTE's compliance with US export control laws, the Commerce Department said in a release announcing the settlement. ZTE declined to comment. The White House didn't respond to a request for comment. On Tuesday, it was reported that ZTE, the fourth-largest smartphone maker in the US by market share, had agreed in principle to a settlement that would lift the seven-year Commerce Department ban preventing US companies from doing business with it. That report said ZTE would have to pay a total of $1.7 billion in penalties, with a preliminary deal including a $1 billion fine and $400 million in escrow in case of future violations. These penalties come on top of the millions ZTE has already paid to the US under its 2017 settlement. "We will closely monitor ZTE's behavior," said Ross in the release. "If they commit any further violations, we would again be able to deny them access to US technology as well as collect the additional $400 million in escrow. The first settlement with ZTE set a record for civil and criminal penalties in an export control case. This new settlement agreement sets another record, and brings the total penalties assessed on ZTE to $2.29 billion." The May ban came after the government determined that ZTE violated terms of its 2017 settlement by failing to fire or punish employees involved with illegally shipping US equipment to Iran and North Korea. It crippled the company, which shut down major operations and left it unlikely to survive -- until President Donald Trump got involved. He tweeted that he wanted the Commerce Department to work with ZTE on getting the ban lifted. This move was slammed by members of Congress from both parties, who said the President's tweet was irresponsible. He countered by highlighting that ZTE "buys a big percentage of individual parts from US companies" and saying the telecom giant's fate reflects the US relationship with China. The Commerce Department denial order prevented ZTE from utilizing key technology from US suppliers like Qualcomm and and Broadcom, making it difficult to produce smartphones or telecommunications equipment. It also prevented the company from accessing core parts of Google's Android software, including the Google Play store. ZTE has become a critical part of the broader discussions between China and the US, the two largest economies in the world, over trade tensions and whether the two countries can prevent a trade war that could involve billions of dollars' worth of tariffs. CNET's Roger Cheng contributed to this report. First published June 7, 5:31 a.m. PT Updates, 5:54 a.m.: Adds background; 8:26 a.m.: Includes comment from Commerce Department release; 11:09 a.m: Adds ZTE declining to comment. Follow the Money: This is how digital cash is changing the way we save, shop and work. Security: Stay up-to-date on the latest in breaches, hacks, fixes and all those cybersecurity issues that keep you up at night. Comments Politics Tech Industry Qualcomm Google Notification on Notification off ZTE Close Discuss: ZTE gets a deal with the US that brings it back from the brink Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.