https://www.cnet.com/news/is-google-home-the-sous-chef-your-smart-kitchen-needs/
Google Home's new recipe feature is surprisingly useful - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Google Home's new recipe feature is surprisingly useful The smart speaker breaks down recipes into individual steps and proceeds at the pace you choose. Ashlee Clark Thompson May 4, 2017 9:40 AM PDT Enlarge Image The Google Home read aloud the steps to make these chicken fingers. Chris Monroe/CNET Google Home's latest update earns the always-listening, internet-connected smart speaker a place on your countertop. Last week, Google added a feature to its Google Assistant that lets you send recipes to the Google Home, which will then read the instructions aloud when you prompt the speaker. That means you use voice commands to cue up the recipe ("OK, Google, start cooking") and let it know as you complete each step ("OK, Google, next step"). You can also ask the Google Home to perform other tasks while you're in the middle of a recipe -- for example, it can play music or tell you what time it is. Reading recipes out loud isn't new -- there are several Skills from content providers, such as Chowhound, that you can enable on the Amazon Echo line of smart speakers. These skills, however, often read recipes all at once and don't let you pause it or repeat a step, making it easy to miss something. Google Home's update, which pulls from a pool of more than five million recipes, is the first for a smart speaker to add a more conversational element to recipe instructions. The speaker will ask you if you want it to read ingredients one by one or in groups of three. It recites the steps of the recipe one step at a time and will only move on when you tell it to. And you can ask the Google Home to repeat previous steps or move ahead in the recipe. Now playing: Watch this: You've got a cooking teacher in the Google Home 1:38 It gets clunky to have to say "Hey, Google" for every step of a recipe. But this lets you move at your own pace and makes you feel like you're in control. Rather than having to adapt to a smart speaker, the recipe feature adapts to you and how you cook. Unfortunately, the Google Home can only access one recipe at a time, so you can't store multiple recipes and cue them up by name. I hope this feature will appear in later updates to make the Google Home even more useful in the kitchen. And it wouldn't surprise me if Google keeps an eye on the recipes you send to Google Home to make recommendations on what you should cook next. Google Home's new feature is a big deal for making smart speakers more useful in the kitchen, and it challenges Amazon to step up its sous chef skills with the Echo. Comments Smart Home Amazon Notification on Notification off Google Close Discuss: Google Home's new recipe feature is surprisingly useful Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.