https://www.cnet.com/news/what-the-november-cravecast-lost-and-found-in-space/
What the CraveCast lost and found in space - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In What the CraveCast lost and found in space November was a whirl of space news, and on this month's show we couldn't get enough of epic sexy math, Twitter's contribution to world space programs and the truth about ancient Mars. Kelsey Adams November 20, 2014 11:16 AM PST "Rosetta's comet is singing, and it sounds like Predator." Beautiful. There's been so much astronomical news this month that we had a second space-themed CraveCast. (Check out the first space episode for more on the eerie sounds of space.) The Rosetta mission has been covered on CNET pretty extensively. CraveCast host Eric Mack is impressed that the Rosetta project's long journey started when he was 14 and so much was accomplished using only the technology of the time. Note: that's the same year "Saved by the Bell" ended. We're all pretty willing to believe the Philae lander is a repurposed 1990s cell phone. Video screenshot by Bonnie Burton/CNET Having carried out its delivery mission, the Rosetta spacecraft is still circling the comet, gathering information, while we wait to find out if the Philae lander will ever wake up again. The lander, whose official account tweeted its gallant last words, joins a number of anthropomorphized rovers and robots sending lonely messages from space: Jade Rabbit, Curiosity, Kirobo, even Hello Kitty (OK, she's not dying. Maybe. Twist: she was dead all along.) My question is, what happens when these bots pick up each others' signals and link up into a network? Like Skynet, only they'll guilt the human race into submission? But Bonnie Burton went with the more optimistic model of Match.com. Lonely no more! That's what she wants to see from scientists too: more hugging. Let her know if there's a Tumblr. She also felt " Interstellar" needs more optimism, and to be shorter. I'll just judge it without seeing it: the plot sounds pretty standard and I'm not sure why people are making a big deal out of it. Eric found the movie more interesting than that -- as did Neil DeGrasse Tyson -- but I don't think any of us are buying the infinite ticket. Related stories Revolutionary image shows planets forming around a star The ISS at night turns spooky Kickstarter to drill the moon's south pole So if we aren't heading out through a wormhole anytime soon, where next? Crave's Amanda Kooser, who sadly couldn't be on the show this month, asked CNET readers in a Friday Poll, and the clear winner was a manned mission to Mars. Bonnie points out that if the movies have taught us anything, it's that Mars is a good place to get killed. (Wait, MIT students taught us that too.) Eric finally got Bonnie onboard with his pitch that Mars could be the true setting of because of its lengthy warming and freezing cycle. I don't buy this at all, since the dead sea bottoms of Mars -- or rather, Barsoom -- are already full up with banths and thoats and no one knows what I'm talking about, do they? Fine. That's fine. Anyway, Stephen Beacham tossed up the theory that we came from Mars originally, which at least would explain this book. Just kidding. Nothing explains that book. (Though: relevant.) Philae lands on a comet (pictures) 7 Photos In case anyone's curious about that last piece of planetary news we were trying to remember: Astronomers Thrilled by Extreme Storms on Uranus. Yep. Apparently it's been unusually active lately. We rounded out the show by watching the "Star Wars" version of that recent video showing a woman experiencing urban street harassment, only the stoic walker is Princess Leia. What do you think, harmless humor or making light of a serious issue? All I have to say is: Oh, Lando. Lando. Video screenshot by Bonnie Burton/CNET And since Wookiee Life Day is November 17, we talked about the infamous Star Wars Holiday Special and learned fun facts from former Lucasfilm stalwart Bonnie: like, you can get versions with commercials from different regions, even the UK. And there's a separate Richard Pryor cantina skit using the same props and costumes. For real though? We also discovered that Bonnie makes friends start with the Holiday Special if they've never seen the series since it'll all get better from there -- a diabolical piece of strategy that deserves its own name, like Machete order. Suggestions welcome. Also, earlier this month I celebrated my first N7 Day as a full-fledged Mass Effect fan (I've finished the first game), so if you're like half my colleagues and love to talk about the game, stop on by. From a robot-attended cruise and flying car to biodegradable drones and cyborg roaches to a prototype hoverboard and fold-up electric bike to holograms in QR codes, we've been talking about the future so much lately that the December CraveCast may be future-themed, though I think we should throw in the past as well so there'll be more excuse to talk about things like Underoos for adults (we compared which ones we used to own in the after-show) and the silliest-looking prehistoric creatures. But if you've got a better idea, hit up @EricCMack on Twitter. He'll probably welcome any excuse to stop watching Too Many Cooks. Now playing: Watch this: Space just became cool again on the CraveCast, Ep. 7 41:29 Comments Crave Farsighted Sci-Tech Mars Rovers Space Star Wars Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: What the CraveCast lost and found in space Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.