https://www.cnet.com/news/equifax-data-leak-hits-nearly-half-of-the-us-population/
Equifax data breach may affect up to 143 million people - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Equifax data breach may affect nearly half the US population Hackers steal sensitive personal information on as many as 143 million people from the credit reporting firm. Alfred Ng, Steven Musil September 7, 2017 6:00 PM PDT Now playing: Watch this: Equifax breach: Were you one of the 143 million affected? 1:29 Hackers stole a treasure trove of financial data from a top credit-reporting company, potentially exposing the personal information of roughly half the US population. Equifax said Thursday that thieves stole customer names, Social Security numbers, birthdates and addresses in a hack that stretched from mid-May and July. The data taken affected as many as 143 million people. The number of affected people is roughly half of the US population of 323 million. The number reported by Equifax doesn't include victims from around the world. "This is clearly a disappointing event and one that strikes at the heart of who we are and what we do," Equifax CEO Rick Smith said in a video released Thursday. In a separate statement, Equifax said it is working with law enforcement on an investigation. The breach, which was particularly potent because one company held such a large amount of sensitive information, is among the largest in US history and the biggest known leak of 2017. Yahoo lost data on roughly a record 1 billion accounts in 2013, the web portal said last year. You can check if your data was leaked at Equifax's website. Here's a step-by-step on how to find out if you were affected by the Equifax hack. Worried consumers, however, expressed frustration with a tool the company launched to help them determine if their personal information had been stolen. @Equifax your "potential impact" process is confusing. It doesnt tell the users if their info was impacted. It gives them an enrollment date — E (@jesanchezv) September 7, 2017 Clicked button to Check Potential Impact on acct. Now UNWILLINGLY auto-enrolled in TrustedID Premier & STILL DON'T KNOW IF ACCT WAS HACKED! — Robert Dimmick (@rbdimmick) September 7, 2017 Equifax learned about the breach on July 29 but didn't reveal it for more than a month. The hackers stole credit card numbers of about 209,000 people and also got documents with personal information on 182,000 victims, Equifax said in a statement to its investors. People in the UK and Canada have also been affected by the breach, the company said. It has stopped the breach and is still investigating who was behind the break-in. "Criminals exploited a US website application vulnerability to gain access to certain files," Equifax said in its statement. Companies like Target, Home Depot and Sony have offered free credit monitoring through Equifax after they suffered breaches, and Equifax is one of three major companies that monitor credit scores after data breaches. Equifax is offering its own credit-monitoring service to people affected by its own breach. The protection includes free identity theft protection and credit monitoring for the next year. "Given that financial institutions, including credit card companies, banks, credit unions, retailers and lenders report the details of credit activity to Equifax, the 143 million consumers affected may not even be aware the company has this information on them," Theresa Payton, who runs Fortalice Solutions, a security company, said in an email. Sen. Mark Warner (D-Virginia), the vice chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee, called Equifax's revelation "profoundly troubling" and suggested it was time for Congress to weigh in on stronger data protection standards for consumers. Warner said the hack "raises serious questions about whether Congress should not only create a uniform data breach notification standard, but also whether Congress needs to rethink data protection policies, so that enterprises such as Equifax have fewer incentives to collect large, centralized sets of highly sensitive data like SSNs and credit card information on millions of Americans." Equifax's revelation of the breach was complicated by news three executives had sold shares of the company after the hack was uncovered. The executives, including the company's chief financial officer, sold shares worth almost $1.8 million three days after the breach was discovered and several weeks before it was made public, according to regulatory filings. The Securities and Exchange Commission bars corporate insiders such as executives, employees and directors from buying or selling stock in their company while in possession of material information not yet made public. Equifax denied the executives sold their shares based on insider information. "The three executives who sold a small percentage of their Equifax shares on Tuesday, August 1, and Wednesday, August 2, had no knowledge that an intrusion had occurred at the time they sold their shares," Ines Gutzmer, Equifax's chief of corporate communications, said. Equifax's stock, which had been up in regular trading, dropped more than 13 percent in after-hours trading following the announcement. This story was originally published a 2:25 p.m. PT. Updated at 7:50 p.m. PT: To correct Sen. Warner's political affiliation. Updated at 6 p.m. PT: To include consumer and Sen. Warner reactions. Updated at 4:10 p.m. PT: To include executive stock sales and after-hours trading. Updated at 3:06 p.m. PT: To include details about Equifax and statements from an expert. CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition. Logging Out: Welcome to the crossroads of online life and the afterlife. Comments Notification on Notification off Security Close Discuss: Equifax data breach may affect nearly half the US population Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.