https://www.cnet.com/news/best-phones-of-2019-iphone-11-galaxy-note-10/
Best phones of 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best phones of 2020 Hand-picked by CNET editors, these are the best phones right now. Lynn La February 15, 2020 4:30 AM PST Best midtier iPhone Apple iPhone 11 Jump to details $699 at Apple A premium Android experience Samsung Galaxy Note 10 Plus Jump to details $950 at Walmart Absolute best camera on any phone Huawei P30 Pro Jump to details $630 at Amazon Best Android value of 2020 OnePlus 7 Pro Jump to details $699 at OnePlus Little, mighty and worth every penny Samsung Galaxy S10E Jump to details $450 at Best Buy Cheaper Pixel 3 with same great camera Google Pixel 3A Jump to details $300 at Walmart Best budget phone gets better Motorola Moto G7 Jump to details $299 at Walmart Show more (2 items) At just two months into 2020, new phones are shaping up to be what we largely expected. Namely, this year will be a big one for phones with better cameras, flexible displays, 5G connectivity or screens with high refresh rates. Samsung proved this point recently on Feb. 11, when it announced its Galaxy S20 devices and the foldable Galaxy Z Flip phone, which include many of these premium features. This shouldn't be surprising, as phone-makers are evolving and innovating faster than ever. We also predict that Samsung's Galaxy line and Apple's iPhones will remain many people's top choice, but other phone-makers will gun for their place with fantastic handsets of their own. All this competition benefits us users, however, who have many excellent phones to choose from, and at a number of different prices. Read on to see what the best phones are right now and take a look at our tips on how to buy a new phone. Also, check back with this list often as we regularly update it as the year unfolds -- especially given that Samsung and Motorola recently launched several phones. Read more: Best phones under $500 Now playing: Watch this: What to look for when buying a phone 2:09 Best midtier iPhone Apple iPhone 11 Sarah Tew/CNET Starting at $700, the iPhone 11 is the best midtier model Apple has ever made. Its cameras get an excellent new Night Mode and an ultrawide-angle camera adds extra detail in photos. Video is fantastic, too. Read our Apple iPhone 11 review. $699 at Apple $700 at Best Buy $700 at Verizon Wireless A premium Android experience Samsung Galaxy Note 10 Plus Angela Lang/CNET While it's true that the new Galaxy S20 phones just launched, the refined, feature-packed Note 10 Plus from 2019 still closes the gap with rival phones. This top-of-the-line phone was made for people who want the best Android. It has a killer 6.8-inch screen, an all-day battery life and excellent camera tools. Read our Samsung Galaxy Note 10 Plus review. $950 at Walmart $950 at Best Buy $1,100 at Sprint Absolute best camera on any phone Huawei P30 Pro Angela Lang/CNET The Huawei P30 Pro's photo skills rule the phone world. It takes astounding photos, its battery life is superb, and its vibrant design is beautiful. Read our Huawei P30 Pro review. $630 at Amazon Best Android value of 2020 OnePlus 7 Pro Angela Lang/CNET Phones nowadays are constantly one-upping each other with pop-up selfie cameras, in-display fingerprint sensors and multiple rear cameras in addition to their selfie camera. The OnePlus 7 Pro has all the features du jour to keep us enticed. But it's the phone's $669 starting price that's the deal maker. OnePlus' followup for the US market, the OnePlus 7T is also an excellent phone. And keep an eye out in 2020 for the next OnePlus flagship, as the company demoed its OnePlus Concept One at CES 2020, which included a 'disappearing' camera. Read our OnePlus 7 Pro review. $699 at OnePlus Little, mighty and worth every penny Samsung Galaxy S10E Angela Lang/CNET As the most wallet-friendly Galaxy S10 phone, the Galaxy S10E has a lot to offer. It's a smaller phone, which is great for those looking for a small grip, it has a superfast Snapdragon 855 chipset and a lengthy battery life. It can also wirelessly charge other phones and accessories. Read our Samsung Galaxy S10E review. $450 at Best Buy $750 at Sprint $600 at Verizon Wireless Cheaper Pixel 3 with same great camera Google Pixel 3A Angela Lang/CNET The Pixel 3A shaves a few features off of 2018's Pixel 3: It's not water-resistant, doesn't have wireless charging, and it maxes out at 64GB of storage. But it adds a headphone jack and keeps the same amazing Night Sight camera that can shoot great photos in the dark. (Daytime photos look amazing, too.) It's because of its great value that the phone earned a CNET Editors' Choice. Read our Google Pixel 3A review. $300 at Walmart $300 at Best Buy $399 at Sprint Best budget phone gets better Motorola Moto G7 Angela Lang/CNET The Moto G7 is one of the most affordable and reliable phones. Though its single speaker doesn't offer the greatest sound, and it takes mediocre low-light photos and video, the G7 has dual rear cameras, an enduring battery life and a sleek design. It also charges really quickly, which is useful when you need to juice up while on the go. Read our Motorola Moto G7 review. $299 at Walmart $300 at Best Buy $300 at B&H Photo-Video More phone buying guides Best Android phones of 2020 Best prepaid phones of 2020 Best foldable phones of 2020 Comments Phones Google Motorola Samsung Apple OnePlus Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Best phones of 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.