https://www.cnet.com/news/the-audiophiliacs-speaker-of-the-year-the-kef-ls50/
The Audiophiliac's speaker of the year: The KEF LS50 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In The Audiophiliac's speaker of the year: The KEF LS50 The British have a knack for making exceptional-sounding small monitor speakers; the KEF LS50 is the latest example of the breed. Steve Guttenberg December 29, 2012 7:36 AM PST The KEF LS50 driver Steve Guttenberg/CNET Even before you hear KEF's new LS50 speaker, there's no doubt it's a unique design. The speaker's single "rose"-color driver sports radial fins, and the cabinet has a swept-back front baffle. I've never seen anything quite like it before. The speaker stands 11.9 inches tall, 7.9 inches wide, 10.9 inches deep, and weighs 15.8 pounds. The MDF cabinet has the build quality of a very high-end design. The sound is just as extraordinary as the look, and the LS50 can be used as a desktop monitor or as hi-fi speakers. It commemorates KEF's 50th anniversary. The LS50's proprietary driver combines a ribbed 5.25-inch aluminum/magnesium woofer with a 1-inch aluminum dome tweeter, the driver sports a die-cast aluminum frame, and the tweeter has that nifty-looking Tangerine waveguide that uses "radial air channels to produce spherical waves up to the highest frequencies." The driver shares a design and engineering kinship with the similar-looking unit in KEF's $30,000 Blade speaker. The LS50's curved front panel is made of a polyester resin combined with glass fiber and calcium carbonate. The speaker's rear hosts heavy-duty binding posts that match the quality feel of the rest of the speaker. There are no provisions for wall mounts or brackets, but this isn't really the sort of speaker that sounds best hugging a wall. The MSRP runs $1,499.99 per pair. KEF LS50s KEF Placed on 25-inch-tall steel speaker stands in my listening room at home, the LS50s projected a massive sound field. Spatial depth and resolution of fine detail were exceptionally good, so when I played Muddy Waters' "Folk Singer" LP I didn't just hear Muddy and his band, I heard them playing within the acoustic of the recording studio, so the music was more believably alive. The LS50 communicates music's subtle dynamic shifts with rare precision, and that may be one of the reasons why it sounds so lifelike. Bass fullness and definition are pretty respectable for a speaker of its size. They played rock loud enough for me, and large-scale orchestral music was well served by the LS50s. It's one of the best small hi-fi speakers I've heard at any price. It may be a little large for a desktop speaker, but it's the best-sounding speaker I've heard on my desktop, partnered with my old NAD 3020 integrated amplifier. Comments The Audiophiliac Audio Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: The Audiophiliac's speaker of the year: The KEF LS50 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.