https://www.cnet.com/news/wsj-nyt-reviews-say-iphone-features-overcome-slow-network/
'WSJ', 'NYT' reviews say iPhone features overcome slow network - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In 'WSJ', 'NYT' reviews say iPhone features overcome slow network Walt Mossberg and David Pogue have posted their iPhone reviews after two weeks with the gadget, and despite reservations about the network speed, they like it. Tom Krazit March 5, 2008 2:07 PM PST Apple's first cell phone received mostly positive reviews from The Wall Street Journal and The New York Times Tuesday afternoon, although both pointed out several flaws with the device. Walt Mossberg and David Pogue, of the Journal and the Times, respectively, posted their reviews Tuesday afternoon. Mossberg's original headline was "The iPhone is breakthrough handheld computer," but it was later changed to "Testing out the iPhone." Pogue went with a slightly more nuanced "The iPhone matches most of its hype." Both reviewers had the iPhone for two weeks, and Mossberg noted he used it in multiple cities. The first iPhone reviews are in, do you still want to buy it? Apple "Our verdict is that, despite some flaws and feature omissions, the iPhone is, on balance, a beautiful and breakthrough handheld computer," Mossberg wrote in what we in the business call the nut graph. Pogue wrote, "As it turns out, much of the hype and some of the criticisms are justified. The iPhone is revolutionary; it's flawed." The iPhone's user interface received high marks. Both gentlemen thought the finger-driven scrolling interface worked very well and dismissed concerns over possible scratches or smudges on the large touch screen. The Safari browser also received high praise from each reviewer. Mossberg thought the touch-screen keyboard was fine after a period of getting used to the new input method. Pogue was less convinced that the keyboard entry would be a hit, noting "Tapping the skinny little virtual keys on the screen is frustrating, especially at first," and "The BlackBerry won't be going away anytime soon." Mossberg noted that there's no way to cut, copy or paste text, which struck me as a bit odd. The biggest problem is the one that most predicted: the EDGE network Apple chose for the first iPhone. Unless you're in a Wi-Fi hot spot, Internet browsing is going to be painful, Pogue said. "The New York Times's home page takes 55 seconds to appear; Amazon.com, 100 seconds; Yahoo, two minutes. You almost ache for a dial-up modem," he wrote. Mossberg also confirmed what ZDnet.com's Mary Jo Foley reported earlier today, that the iPhone will connect directly to Microsoft Exchange servers. He also said there will be no way to upgrade the first-generation iPhone to faster networks, however, so any e-mail with attachments might take forever to appear on the iPhone. CNET will have its own review later this week, so stay tuned for that as well. UPDATED: Newsweek's Steven Levy and USA Today's Edward Baig also have weighed in with their two-week looks at the iPhone, and for the most part they had the same impressions as Mossberg and Pogue. The iPhone sure is pretty, but it's not perfect. Levy wrote perhaps the most glowing review of the four, saying "It's a superbly engineered, cleverly designed and imaginatively implemented approach to a problem that no one has cracked to date: merging a phone handset, an Internet navigator and a media player in a package where every component shines, and the features are welcoming rather than foreboding." Baig seemed to have the easier time of the four reviewers adjusting to the touch-screen keyboard, but noted that the lack of Flash or Windows Media Video support makes it hard to watch videos from sites like USA Today. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: 'WSJ', 'NYT' reviews say iPhone features overcome slow network Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.