https://www.cnet.com/news/macheads-movie-seems-a-realistic-look-at-cult-of-mac/
'MacHeads' movie seems a realistic look at cult of Mac - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In 'MacHeads' movie seems a realistic look at cult of Mac It's too early to tell, but the film looks like a realistic examination of the cult and emotions surrounding Apple's computers. Daniel Terdiman January 22, 2008 3:57 PM PST Apple's Fifth Avenue store in Manhattan is a center of Machead lust, something the new film 'MacHeads' will explore. Corinne Schulze/CNET Networks This afternoon, I heard about the forthcoming film, MacHeads, for the first time. My first thought was, huh, someone has made a movie based on Leander Kahney's book, The Cult of Mac. I watched the trailer, and sure enough, Kahney--a former editor of mine when I wrote for Wired News--was in it. But it didn't look at all like it was his film. Rather, it appears to be a similar look at the cultlike community and emotions that surround Apple, the Mac, and all things non-Windows. For me, the trailer itself was gratifying enough, as from the very first frame, I recognized someone I know and it only went on from there. All told, five of the people they used in the trailer were friends or acquaintances of mine. But more to the point, I think it's an interesting idea, making a movie like this. Obviously, I don't know anything about the film beyond what I saw in the trailer. But it seemed like they captured the sense of charged emotions that Mac users have about their computers and the company that makes them: devotion, excitement, reverence, frustration, betrayal, and so forth. For it's abundantly clear that while Apple is a consumer-focused company, it doesn't really care about you as a customer. That is to say, its products are well-thought out; they are made with the consumer in mind. But as a consumer, you aren't treated any better--or worse--than you would be by other companies. Either way, I'm very interested in this film. I think it will be a valuable cultural examination, and I hope that the filmmakers stayed true to the sense conveyed in the trailer that they--and Macheads--can be enamored of the Mac but also be highly skeptical of Apple. Time will tell. There doesn't appear to be any info available about when the film will be released. So, stay tuned. I'm sure we'll have more as the film gets closer. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: 'MacHeads' movie seems a realistic look at cult of Mac Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.