https://www.cnet.com/news/reviewed-blu-ray-setup-discs-for-your-hdtv/
Reviewed: Blu-ray setup discs for your HDTV - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Reviewed: Blu-ray setup discs for your HDTV Setup discs help you ensure that you're getting the best performance from your TV. These discs will help you out, no matter what your skill level. Geoffrey Morrison December 4, 2014 5:11 PM PST If you've never adjusted the settings on your TV, it's a good bet it's not performing as well as it could. While it's possible to get the picture settings close just by using your eye, the better option is a Blu-ray setup disc. Beginner to expert, there's one for every skill level. All will get your TV performing much better than before. Reviewed: Blu-ray setup discs for your HDTV (screenshots) 17 Photos Disney WOW: World of Wonder For: Beginner - Intermediate Disney went all out with its foray into the setup disc world. Extremely high production values, well-made and easy to follow tutorials, and even extensive test patterns. The main menu of Disney's WOW: World of Wonder Blu-ray. It's purrrrdy. Screenshot: Geoffrey Morrison - Pattern: Disney A screenshot from one of the tutorials on the Disney WOW disc. Here it's explaining interlaced and progressive exceedingly well. Screenshot: Geoffrey Morrison - Content: Disney This is one of the Disney WOW disc's patterns to help you set contrast. There's a similarly designed pattern to set brightness. Screenshot: Geoffrey Morrison - Pattern: Disney Disney The good: Excellent tutorials teach the basics better than any other disc. More than that, it teaches more advanced subjects like deinterlacing, 24p, and more. Test patterns are good, if not extensive. The bad: The other discs here have more patterns, but the ones on the Disney disc are well-designed and offer all the basics and then some. The bottom line: Disney's WOWis a fantastic disc that should be the go-to choice for all beginners looking to learn about their TV, and how to set it up. BD: $39.99, DVD: $34.99--disneydvd.disney.go.com/disney-wow-world-of-wonder Digital Video Essentials: HD Basics For: Advanced Beginner - Intermediate Digital Video Essentials: HD Basics is the latest disc from TV sage Joe Kane. You'll find detailed and extensive test patterns that not only help you set up your TV, but aid a trained calibrator (more on this later) in getting every last pixel of performance from your TV. The main menu of DVE: HD Basics. Not as intuitive as Disney's menu, but better than previous generations of DVE. Screenshot: Geoffrey Morrison - Pattern: JKP Here you can see DVE's most user-friendly feature: the menu overlays over the pattern so you can quickly navigate to another pattern. The pattern in the background here tests for per-pixel resolution. Screenshot: Geoffrey Morrison - Pattern: JKP A pattern to check contrast and brightness from DVE: HD Basics. Screenshot: Geoffrey Morrison - Pattern: JKP Joe Kane Productions The good: Extensive test patterns, lots of tutorials. The bad: Not as easy to navigate or understand as the Disney disc. The bottom line: There's a lot here to keep the average TV enthusiast busy for hours. Tutorials and test patterns will ensure everything is set up correctly. It's not as user-friendly or as slick as Disney's WOW, and real beginners could get overwhelmed. That said, its got just about everything most people would need. BD: $29.95--videoessentials.com Spears & Munsil High-Definition Benchmark For: Intermediate - Expert Note! This has been replaced by the Spears & Munsil HD Benchmark 2nd Edition, which we've reviewed. Stacey Spears and Don Munsil created the ultimate disc for TV reviewers, and were nice enough to share it with everyone. In addition to clever and exacting test patterns, there's a whole suite of deinterlacing and scaling tests that are second to none. The simple main menu of the Spears and Munsil High-Definition Benchmark. Screenshot: Geoffrey Morrison - Pattern: Spears and Munsil A pattern to set contrast on the Spears and Munsil High-Definition Benchmark. Note the fine gradations between steps, allowing for precise adjustment. Screenshot: Geoffrey Morrison - Pattern: Spears and Munsil This is an HD video of a sailing ship. The test here is in the rigging. The better the video processor, the more the ropes will be diagonal lines without jaggies. Screenshot: Geoffrey Morrison - Test Clip: Spears and Munsil This is the infamous rotating bar pattern that tests video processing, as seen on the Spears and Munsil High-Definition Benchmark. Ideally, the bar is smooth throughout its entire rotation. Most TVs or Blu-ray players will create small jagged edges (jaggies) as the bar nears horizontal. Screenshot: Geoffrey Morrison - Pattern: Spears and Munsil Spears and Munsil The good: Well-designed test patterns, advanced deinterlacing/video processing tests. The bad: Not for beginners. The bottom line: The Spears and Munsil Blu-ray is an advanced tool for evaluating many aspects of a television's performance. I use it while testing every TV and Blu-ray player I review. If you have a fair amount of knowledge, and know your way around a setup menu, this disc is awesome. BD: $25--spearsandmunsil.com THX Optimizer (found on THX-certified DVDs and Blu-rays) For: Advanced Beginner The THX Optimizer has been found on DVDs for ages, and recently on Blu-rays as well. A handful of patterns will get you through the basics of setup quickly. The good: Free(ish) The bad: Only the most basic patterns. The bottom line: If you already have, or are going to buy, a THX Certified disc, the THX Optimizer has the basic patterns to get your TV set at least better than stock. The other discs here offer more extensive (and in some cases, better) patterns. If you're just looking to make sure your TV isn't horribly mis-set, the Optimizer will likely do what you need. If you're looking to get all you can out of your display, one of the other discs here will get you closer to that goal. Varies--THX.com (Direct link to Optimizer titles) Related stories Five tips for a better HDTV picture How to set a TV up by eye Why all HDMI cables are the same Geoff Morrison's HDTV and home theater resource center and infotacular Using a DVD instead of a Blu-ray Many setup discs came out during the DVD era, like Avia, the Monster/ISF Calibration Wizard, and so on. Many of these are still available. If you have one of these discs, there really isn't any reason not to use them. As far as basic setup goes, using a DVD should be fine, especially when played through a Blu-ray player. If your TV has different picture memories for different resolutions (or inputs), you'll need to be careful to make sure the settings you choose when using your setup disc apply to the other inputs/resolutions. This is true for any setup disc. Each source will likely need slightly different settings, but they should be close. Full calibration To get the ultimate in performance out of your TV, you'll want to check out getting it calibrated by a professional. A trained calibrator (from the Imaging Science Foundation, for example) can calibrate your TV's color temperature, make sure every setting and connection is correct, and ensure that your TV is performing the best it can. If you're interested in learning more about getting your TV calibrated, check out my What is HDTV calibration article. You don't have to take my word for it: Must-have Blu-ray TV setup discs--OK, admittedly this is taking my word for it, as I talk about some of the discs here with more words but fewer pictures. Picture settings and calibration FAQ--Ask the editors Comments Home Entertainment IBM Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: Reviewed: Blu-ray setup discs for your HDTV Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.