https://www.cnet.com/news/uv-photography-reveals-our-sun-damaged-selves/
UV photography reveals our sun-damaged selves - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In UV photography reveals our sun-damaged selves A new study of hundreds of middle-schoolers uses ultraviolet-imaging technology to show that sun damage can happen early in life. Elizabeth Armstrong Moore April 13, 2012 3:40 PM PDT A 35-year-old melanoma survivor agrees to share photos that Dellavalle's team took comparing her skin under normal light and ultraviolet light. University of Colorado Cancer Center Sometimes we need to see to believe. I remember understanding on an intellectual level, from a young age, that smoking was bad, but I didn't really get it on a visceral level until I saw a smoker's blackened lungs. The effect was so profound that, to this day, I go so far as to hold my breath when walking past people smoking. Unfortunately, it's not easy to peer inside our own bodies and check out the health of our lungs. It's also difficult to see the effects sun exposure is having on our skin, especially when a tan can look so deceptively like a healthy glow. For years, one of the best-known tools to view sun damage has been both expensive and largely untested: ultraviolet photography. But while UV photography remains expensive, researchers at the University of Colorado have recently tested its use as a tool in the fight against cancer. The researchers studied the assumption that actual signs of susceptibility to melanoma cancer -- things like freckles, red hair, blue eyes, and/or pale skin -- would point to skin markings of a particular severity seen via UV photography. They report in the Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology that is indeed the case. Related stories Photoacoustic device identifies cancer before tumors form Three wavelengths of extreme ultraviolet light MelApp checks for skin cancer, tracks moles Out of the nearly 600 12-year-old boys and girls studied, those with signs of susceptibility were also those with the most visible spots in the UV photographs. Because light that's visible to the human eye falls into the 400- to 750-nanometer range (the spectrum used in normal photography), photos using UV light (covering the range from roughly 1 to 400 nanometers) as the flash source can reveal markings not visible to the naked eye. By snapping a photo using near UV light as the flash -- which dermatologist and study co-author Robert Dellavalle says is the equivalent of being exposed to one second of sunlight -- ugly and gruesome details can be revealed, even in preteens. "Some of the kids are really freaked out and don't want to look at the images at all, so I tell them to look at their inner zombie," Dellavalle says. "This is like seeing your lung black, and appearances have a big impact at this time of life." Dellavalle says UV photos have revealed skin damage in children as young as 2. "Even I, as a dermatologist doing sun protection for years, am affected by these images," he says. "I know I can do a better job." If only the technology weren't so cost-prohibitive. The system Dellavalle and his team used, Canfield's Visia Complexion Analysis, can cost upward of $20,000. Since the best intervention may involve photographing students in schools before they are of the age to turn to tanning beds or reject hats and sun block, the price could prove a major roadblock. And before those of us with darker complexions and fewer freckles bask in the glow of our reduced risk factors, these findings are a reminder that just because we don't look like we burn as easily doesn't mean our naked eyes are seeing the complete picture. Comments Oracle Notification on Notification off Sci-Tech Close Discuss: UV photography reveals our sun-damaged selves Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.