https://www.cnet.com/news/amd-maps-out-server-plans-for-next-two-years/
AMD maps out server plans for next two years - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In AMD maps out server plans for next two years Company executives are laying out AMD's plans for the future Thursday, and the server group will have a brand-new architecture for 2009. Tom Krazit July 26, 2007 10:23 AM PDT SUNNYVALE, Calif.--AMD will unveil a new chip design in 2009 for the server market and faster versions of its Barcelona quad-core chip later this year, company executives said Thursday. AMD's near-term goal is to get its Barcelona quad-core chip out into the market. The company has already said it plans to launch Barcelona chips at 2GHz later this quarter, but it also plans to ship faster versions of those chips in the fourth quarter, said Randy Allen, corporate vice president of AMD's server products division, at a technology analyst meeting at the company's Silicon Valley headquarters. The 2GHz launch speed had underwhelmed analysts who were expecting a faster debut from Barcelona, a quad-core server chip that AMD desperately needs to shore up the average selling prices of its server chips. Intel has been cutting into AMD's margins with its own quad-core chips, launched late last year as a package of two dual-core chips. Some purists considered that an inelegant design, but customers haven't seemed to mind. Barcelona will come in three varieties, Allen said. The mainstream version will account for 77 percent of AMD's quad-core shipments and will debut at 2GHz. A more power-efficient version will debut at 1.9GHz, with faster speeds available later in the year, and a high-performance version will arrive in the fourth quarter at 2.3GHz or faster, he said. But AMD also needs to show customers that it has a solid road map, so the company is trickling out details about future chips today. Shanghai will come next year as a shrunken version of Barcelona built on AMD's 45-nanometer manufacturing technology. Both Shanghai and Barcelona will fit into chipsets that are currently available for AMD's dual-core chips. And then, in 2009, AMD will come out with a new core design code-named Sandtiger and a new underlying platform timed to the uptake of DDR3 memory, Allen said. AMD's integrated memory controller design means that it has to tweak that controller every time a new memory standard becomes the king of the hill. Sandtiger will use a new design Allen referred to as Direct Connect 2. This will involve four Hypertransport links on each chip, up from the current three, and will come with an AMD-designed server chipset. Stay tuned for more details on AMD's future plans over the rest of the day. I'll update this post once I retrieve the thermal information for the three Barcelona varieties. AMD's apparently planning to show us 14 million PowerPoint slides today, and they are whizzing past. UPDATED 10:05 a.m.: AMD let us take a coffee break, during which I found out that Sandtiger will be an eight-core processor built on the 45nm manufacturing technology. Like Barcelona, it will also be a monolithic design with eight cores all integrated onto a single chip. AMD Chief Technology Officer Phil Hester smiled when asked just how large a chip that would be, declining to specify a die size but assuring me it would be "economically attractive." The surface area of a processor is a huge factor in manufacturing and profitability, since the larger the chip, the fewer number of chips you can cut from a silicon wafer. Jim McGregor, an analyst with In-Stat, hinted that AMD would likely have a fundamentally new--and smaller--core design for that generation to make the manufacturing folks happy. Comments Culture Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: AMD maps out server plans for next two years Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.