https://www.cnet.com/news/todays-sign-that-the-3g-iphone-is-nigh/
Today's sign that the 3G iPhone is nigh - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Today's sign that the 3G iPhone is nigh Give me a G! And another G! And yet another G! The analysts over at Piper Jaffray are getting ready for the launch of a 3G iPhone in "imminent" fashion. Tom Krazit May 12, 2008 10:11 AM PDT The iPhone will soon be faster. We'll define 'soon' as between four and six weeks. CNET Networks Widespread iPhone shortages, combined with an explosion in carrier deals, point to the launch of the next-generation iPhone as right around the corner, according to Piper Jaffray. I know, I know: this isn't the first time you've heard that theory. But you have to admit that signs are piling up that a 3G iPhone is in Apple's short-term plans. Let's recap the evidence so far. The iPhone is currently unavailable at half the Apple retail stores surveyed by Piper Jaffray over the weekend. Both the 8GB and 16GB models are unavailable from Apple's online store. Shortages have also been reported in recent weeks in the U.K. following a price cut. Also, Apple is adding wireless carriers at a frantic pace. Canada, Mexico, Australia, much of Latin America, four new countries in Asia, and almost half of Europe are now on track to start officially selling iPhones in short fashion. The big Asian prizes, China and Japan, remain outsiders for the moment, but unlocked iPhones are selling briskly in China under the table. Piper Jaffray expects Apple to announce the 3G iPhone at the Worldwide Developer's Conference in June (where, believe it or not, Apple CEO Steve Jobs will deliver a keynote address). The iPhone 2.0 software is expected to arrive by the end of June, which will mark the one-year anniversary of the iPhone's debut. So, those of you who were wondering if you should wait to purchase an iPhone until the 3G model comes out, rest easy. You simply can't buy one now even if you wanted to--or at least, you're going to have trouble finding one. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Today's sign that the 3G iPhone is nigh Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.