https://www.cnet.com/news/google-cast-app-becomes-google-home/
Google Cast is recast as Google Home companion app - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Google Cast is recast as Google Home companion app Ready to release its Home voice-operated speaker next week, the company has delivered an update to its old Google Cast setup app. Ty Pendlebury October 26, 2016 2:51 PM PDT Google is gearing up for the release of the Google Home smart speaker on November 2 with the release of the companion app. Originally called Google Cast, the new Google Home app, released this week, lets you cast content to compatible devices over your network as well as set up multiroom audio groups. While the app looks similar to Google Cast, there is one major change -- you no longer click the "Devices" tab. You now click a new icon in the top right to add Google devices. Screenshot by Ty Pendlebury/CNET This button will bring up previously discovered devices in a list as well as add a blue "Add Device" button at the bottom. This screen also enables you to group devices -- whether Chromecast Audio dongles or compatible Google Cast devices from the likes of Sony, Raumfeld (soon) or LG. Casting to groups is the same as casting to a single device -- just tap the name of the group under the Chromecast icon in compatible apps and all of the devices in the group will play simultaneously. Groups are currently limited to audio devices and not video dongles such as the Chromecast Ultra. The Google Home speaker is available for preorder for $129 and is a competitor to the Amazon Echo. (That price converts to about £100 or AU$170, but Google hasn't said if it'll be available beyond the US.) Like the Echo, the Google Home lets you use voice commands via a microphone built into the device. While Amazon claims its Alexa assistant now knows over 3,000 different skills -- including Logitech Harmony integration -- Google has yet to announce a comprehensive list of compatible devices. Look out for a full review of the Google Home and how it compares to other digital assistants and multiroom speakers very soon. Now playing: Watch this: Top 5 reasons to buy a Google Home (and 3 not to) 1:38 Comments Wireless & Bluetooth Speakers Smart Home Notification on Notification off Google Close Discuss: Google Cast is recast as Google Home companion app Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.