https://www.cnet.com/news/hps-hurd-dings-cloud-computing-ibm/
HP's Hurd dings cloud computing, IBM - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In HP's Hurd dings cloud computing, IBM Cloud computing is real and has potential, but Mark Hurd wouldn't trust HP's important computing infrastructure to it yet. Stephen Shankland October 21, 2009 5:27 PM PDT ORLANDO, Fla.--Cloud computing? It's got its place, but apparently not one very close to the heart of Hewlett-Packard Chief Executive Mark Hurd today. At the Gartner Symposium here, Hurd said cloud computing has promise but that he and customers he speaks to are leery of moving important applications to another company's infrastructure outside the company's own firewall. "I think it's a very attractive model, but there will be challenges," Hurd said. "At the end of the day, if you tell a CEO, 'Put our e-mail in the cloud,' a certain amount of CEOs will tell you not (to). If (HP Chief Information Officer Randy) Mott told me, 'Put the general ledger up in cloud,' I'd say go back to work, we're not doing that." The cloud is real for many consumer services, he said. So why isn't it suitable for HP's core financial records stored in the general ledger? Security, for one thing. "We get about 1,000 hacks a day. They're more sophisticated every month," Hurd said. "Security and reliability is a huge thing. It's unlikely we'd put anything outside the firewall that's material in nature that we couldn't 100 percent secure." HP CEO Mark Hurd explains process re-engineering. Stephen Shankland/CNET Hurd also said cloud computing has a branding issue among CEOs he speaks to. In one gathering he was doing fine until he raised the issue. "I got a lot of boos after that...From a nontechnical CEO perspective, 'cloud computing' does not sound very clear to them," he said. The message he gets from those CEOs: "If this cloud computing is so cool, try to break this down into simple clear services that help my business be a better business." Moving beyond services In an onstage interview, Hurd also described HP's overall strategy, starting with building blocks of servers, PCs, networking equipment, and storage at the foundation, working up through software and putting services at the top. Well, at the top for now. HP is headed for another layer: specific services packaged for particular customer segments, or "verticals" in industry parlance. "The natural outgrowth for us will be more focus for us on vertical solutions," he said. HP won't get into practices for human resources or executive compensation, but will work in areas in which it can extend its computing technology ingredients. Hurd said that spanning this range of products and services means that scale matters, for example in bargaining with component suppliers. Here, he dinged competitor IBM for selling its PC business to Lenovo, though without mentioning Big Blue by name. "When a company would sell off its PC business, for example, you would have a problem because you would no longer be as big a customer to all those people who supply products to that supply chain," Hurd said. He also took a potshot when asked about how HP's strategy differs from IBM's. "I don't follow them very closely," he wisecracked. "It sounds like they're trying to chase us." Beefing up sales Gartner analyst Donna Scott said big customers find HP easy to deal with, but for others, the company is fragmented. Hurd acknowledged there are problems, but said HP is working on them. "We have a strategy to sell more. If somebody is interested in buying more, our strategies are aligned," he deadpanned. In particular, when it comes to revenue growth, HP is aiming at smaller companies, he said. At present 70 percent of spending on IT comes from HP's top 2,000 biggest accounts. Hurd pointed to an emphasis on sales as one area where he's trying to shift HP's culture. "(Company co-founder David) Packard used to say, 'If we build great products customers will find them,'" Hurd said. "We actually want to sell them too." Revamping HP's own IT Hewlett-Packard has focused on cutting costs of its own computing infrastructure. In 2004, the year before Hurd took over as CEO, "We had $79 billion in revenue. We made $3.5 billion (in net income). We spent $75.5 billion." So, he asked the company's staff, "What do you spend it on?" IT was a big part of it, accounting for $4.2 billion. Of that 82 percent was just to keep things running. "One of our big spends was IT. We had more IT professionals in the company than we had salespeople," he said. "We had IT spread out. Everybody had a little bit of ownership," Hurd said. There were 87 data centers, 6,000 applications, 19,000 people, 24,000 servers, 20 petabytes of data stored at 700 data marts. The company "flipped the model," cutting expenses and redirecting funds to the future instead. "Our spend is down 40 percent and our innovation is up 2X in dollars." It was painful and HP made mistakes on the way, but it was a personal priority for Hurd. "I get a lot of CIOs who show me how bad their IT is," Hurd said. When he sees it, "My first reaction is it's because of a bad CEO." Comments Software Tech Industry Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: HP's Hurd dings cloud computing, IBM Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.