https://www.cnet.com/news/best-last-minute-gifts-under-100-this-holiday-season/
Best last-minute gifts under $100 this holiday season - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best last-minute gifts under $100 this holiday season Not only are you almost out of time, but you're also almost out of money. Here's a great lineup of gift ideas to help stretch your Benjamin for Christmas. David Carnoy December 21, 2019 10:29 AM PST Leer en español Anker Soundcore Liberty Air 2: $90 Good value truly wireless headphones Jump to details $90 at Best Buy Hyperice Hypersphere Mini vibrating massage ball: $75 Roll out those muscles Jump to details $75 at Best Buy Bose SoundLink Micro: $70 or less Best tiny Bluetooth speaker under $100 Jump to details $79 at Walmart Upright Go 2 posture trainer Gift for your friend who slouches Jump to details $100 at Amazon UE Wonderboom 2: $70 Big sounding mini wireless speaker Jump to details $70 at Best Buy Amazon Echo Show 5: $70 or less Best value video-enabled Echo Jump to details $90 at Best Buy Logitech MX Master 3: $100 Best everyday mouse under $100 Jump to details $100 at Amazon Roku Streaming Stick Plus: $50 or less Best video streamer under $100 Jump to details $55 at Walmart Tile Sticker 8-pack with free Google Nest Mini: $100 "OK, Google, help me find the TV remote." Jump to details $100 at Tile Sega Genesis Mini: $78 or less Best retro gaming console of 2019 Jump to details $60 at Best Buy Logitech MX Keys: $100 Superb everyday keyboard Jump to details $100 at Amazon Instant Pot Duo60 6-quart pressure cooker: $79 Cook all the things in one thing Jump to details $79 at Amazon Amazfit Bip: $68 Best smartwatch under $100 Jump to details $80 at Walmart Fitbit Inspire HR: $79 Best Fitbit under $100 Jump to details $79 at Amazon Kindle Paperwhite: $100 Best e-reader Jump to details $130 at Best Buy NordicTrack Recovery Massage Gun (Sold out) Affordable massage gun Jump to details $100 at Walmart WD Black P10 portable gaming drive (deal expired) Storage expansion for gamers Jump to details $110 at Best Buy Mealthy CrispLid (deal expired) Turn your Instant Pot into an air fryer Jump to details See at Mealthy Show more (13 items) Folks, I hate to break this to you, but the last day to get two-day shipping in time for Christmas is Sunday, Dec. 22. If you're frantically looking for gifts to finish off the list, you're in luck: We've rounded up a slew of ideas that won't break the bank, with some of the best gifts under $100 below. In our affordable lineup, there's everything from awesome tech gear to something for the audiophile, fitness fiend or aspiring cook in your life. And with the holiday rapidly approaching, many of our picks make great last-minute gifts. We're sure you'll find something to buy all of the people who deserve a perfect gift this year! All our best gifts under $100 have been fully reviewed or anecdotally tested by CNET or Chowhound editors. Now playing: Watch this: Best gifts under $100 for the holidays 2:33 Read more: Best holiday gifts under $250 | The best board games | Best gifts for 10-year-old girls | Best gifts for teenage | Best bar gifts under $100 | Best gifts for 12-year-old girls in 2019: 10-, 11- and 12-year-old gifts for Christmas Anker Soundcore Liberty Air 2: $90 Good value truly wireless headphones Sarah Tew/CNET Why buy AirPods or other name-brand truly wireless headphones, which can cost $160 and up? The Anker Soundcore Liberty Air 2 earbuds deliver solid sound quality for less than $100. This second-generation model offers USB-C charging, better battery life and call quality. It's available in black or white and the case looks way cooler, and more stylish, than an AirPods case. Read our Anker Soundcore Liberty Air first take. $90 at Best Buy Read more: Best holiday gifts under $50 | Best affordable gifts for car lovers and gearheads in 2019 Hyperice Hypersphere Mini vibrating massage ball: $75 Roll out those muscles David Carnoy/CNET Hyperice's original Hypersphere massage ball ($150) is quite powerful but a bit on the large side and requires its own power adapter to charge it. Meanwhile, the new smaller Hypersphere Mini ($99) -- about the size of a softball (3-inch diameter) -- charges with a micro-USB cable (a full charge offers more than two hours of battery life) and actually works better for rolling out your muscles, with 3 speeds to choose from. It also travels better. $75 at Best Buy Read more: 7 massage guns that cost less than the $600 Theragun Bose SoundLink Micro: $70 or less Best tiny Bluetooth speaker under $100 Sarah Tew/CNET Bose's SoundLink Micro ($100) delivers impressive sound for its size and is fully waterproof. Since it's been out a while it frequently gets discounted, particularly during the holidays, which makes it a perfect pick for any audiophile on your list. I haven't heard of anyone not liking this as a gift. Read our Bose SoundLink Micro review. $79 at Walmart $110 at HP $80 at Best Buy Upright Go 2 posture trainer Gift for your friend who slouches Amazon The Upright Go 2, a little device you stick onto your skin at the top of your back (between your shoulder blades), monitors your posture and vibrates when you're slouching. Using the companion app for iOS and Android, you can set up training regimes and keep track of your progress. This new second-generation version is 50 percent smaller than the original. Additional adhesives cost $10 for a 10-pack but some people use double-sided tape to save money. The adhesives (10 are included) kept the Upright Go 2 on my back just fine -- I barely noticed the device was there except for when it vibrated -- and you can wear it for several days without replacing the adhesive. Eventually the adhesive needs to be replaced, however, or you risk having the device fall off your back. $100 at Amazon UE Wonderboom 2: $70 Big sounding mini wireless speaker Sarah Tew/CNET The JBL Clip 3 is arguably the best travel-friendly wireless speaker, but if you're looking for stocking stuffer ideas, the UE Wonderboom 2, which offers improved sound and battery life over the original, is a great choice. This wireless speaker is available in about a dozen fun colors, it really can float and it sounds great, too. Its list price is $100, but right now it's just $70. Read our UE Wonderboom 2 first take. $70 at Best Buy Amazon Echo Show 5: $70 or less Best value video-enabled Echo Tyler Lizenby/CNET Amazon's smallest Echo Show lists for $90, but frequently sells for less than $70. If you're looking for a video-enabled Echo device for your nightstand or kitchen, this is the most affordable option. The new Echo Show 8 lists for $130. It should also be on sale for the holidays and may dip below $100. Read our Echo Show 5 review. $90 at Best Buy $90 at Crutchfield $90 at B&H Photo-Video Logitech MX Master 3: $100 Best everyday mouse under $100 I've been a fan of Logitech's earlier MX Master and MX Master 2S mice, which shared the same design. For the MX Master 3, Logitech's engineers have made some upgrades to both the design and the mechanics of the mouse, most noticeably to the scroll wheel, which is driven by electromagnets and is buttery-smooth to operate. It's fast and quiet -- you can zip through literally thousands of lines in seconds when you switch from ratchet to free-spin mode. This stylish mouse costs just less than $100. Read the Logitech MX Master 3 first take. $100 at Amazon Roku Streaming Stick Plus: $50 or less Best video streamer under $100 Sarah Tew/CNET Netflix, HBO, Hulu and every other streaming video service under the sun -- Roku has it all. This $60 HDMI stick delivers all those channels at up to 4K resolution, and the included remote controls the TV's power and volume, too. It's a great gift idea for grads, for example, who almost certainly don't want a traditional cable package in their first apartment. Read our Roku Streaming Stick Plus review. $55 at Walmart $40 at Best Buy $55 at Crutchfield Tile Sticker 8-pack with free Google Nest Mini: $100 "OK, Google, help me find the TV remote." Tile The ultimate gift for someone who's always losing things, Tile Stickers are little round trackers that pair with your phone. To find one, you just tap the app to make it ring. But you can also use a smart speaker, hence the inclusion of the free Nest Mini. Now, instead of having to find your phone before you can find your other stuff, just tell Google to help you locate the missing thing. $100 at Tile Sega Genesis Mini: $78 or less Best retro gaming console of 2019 Sarah Tew/CNET Here's what CNET's Scott Stein says about the Sega Genesis Mini: "There have been Sega Genesis retro consoles before, and they haven't been good. But the new Sega Genesis Mini is a self-contained TV-connected box set done right. Like the NES Classic and SNES Classic before this, the Genesis Mini has perfect ports of seminal games, layered in a clean menu with extras like game save slots and video settings." We think this is a great gift for both hardcore and casual gamers. Read our Sega Genesis Mini review. $60 at Best Buy $71 at B&H Photo-Video $58 at Adorama Logitech MX Keys: $100 Superb everyday keyboard Sarah Tew/CNET The MX Keys is arguably the smartest low-profile Logitech keyboard I've used. It has "spherically dished" keys that kind of cradle the tips of your fingers, and the keyboard is responsive and tactile. In that sense, it's similar to Logitech's Craft keyboard, which lists for twice the price. The keys light up as your hands approach and there's a sensor that adjusts the illumination according to the lighting conditions. You can also turn off the light if you want to save battery life. The dual layout is designed for both Mac and Windows users, and MX Keys is compatible with Windows, Mac, Linux, iOS and Android systems. Using illumination, you can get 10 days of operation on a full charge or up to five months with backlighting turned off. When it's time to recharge, the battery indicator LED glows red and you can continue using the keyboard while charging via USB-C. If you want to keep appealing your to computer-tethered giftee, a gaming mouse would likely be a welcome addition. Read our Logitech MX Keys first take. $100 at Amazon Instant Pot Duo60 6-quart pressure cooker: $79 Cook all the things in one thing Amazon Assuming there's still someone who doesn't own one of these, an Instant Pot is a perfect gift both for people who love cooking and those who hate it. It can pressure-cook, slow-cook and just about everything in between. Right now, the best deal is at Amazon, where the 6-quart model is $79. However, this is just the first of what promises to be many Instant Pot deals. Word to the wise: Don't pay more than $60 for this often-discounted appliance. Check out CNET's list of the best Instant Pots of 2019 for more inspiration. $79 at Amazon Amazfit Bip: $68 Best smartwatch under $100 Sarah Tew/CNET The Fitbit Versa Lite, Galaxy Watch Active and Apple Watch Series 3 cost $159 and up. But if you want to give a smartwatch within your sub-$100 budget, the Amazfit Bip is your best bet. Despite the low price, it's got an always-on display, water resistance, heart rate tracking and -- most importantly -- battery life that blows away the Apple Watch. It really goes above and beyond any other stocking stuffer ideas we've seen. Read our Amazfit Bip review. $80 at Walmart $80 at B&H Photo-Video $80 at Adorama Fitbit Inspire HR: $79 Best Fitbit under $100 Érika García/CNET Fitbit has several fitness trackers under $200: the $180 Versa, the $160 Versa Lite and the $120 Charge 3. But in this price category, the new-for-2019 Inspire HR comes in under the $100 mark. The HR is so named because it has always-on heart rate monitoring, and its battery should last up to five days. If you want the name brand cachet and superior smartphone apps, the Fitbit is a good trade-up from the Amazfit mentioned above. Read our Fitbit Versa Lite vs. Inspire HR vs. Charge 3 comparison. $79 at Amazon Kindle Paperwhite: $100 Best e-reader Sarah Tew/CNET Yes, the Kindle app is available for free on phones and tablets. But if you're buying a gift for a book lover, the Kindle Paperwhite beats a phone app because it offers distraction-free reading. Other ways the Paperwhite beats a phone: It's readable in full sunlight or in a darkened bedroom, it's fully waterproof and its battery lasts days or weeks, not just a few hours. While this great gift idea normally retails for $130, it's often on sale for $90, which is why we're including it here. Read our Amazon Kindle Paperwhite (2018) review. $130 at Best Buy Expired and sold out deals NordicTrack Recovery Massage Gun (Sold out) Affordable massage gun NordicTrack The NordicTrack Recovery Massage Gun ($100) with interchangeable massage heads is not nearly as powerful as more expensive models, such as the Hyperice Hypervolt ($350), which is a great massage gun. But it's got decent enough kick for the money and will appeal to people who can't take the force of higher-end massage guns -- and also want a much more affordable option. It's also fairly quiet (the more powerful Hyperice is slightly more quiet, however). This deal is sold out. $100 at Walmart WD Black P10 portable gaming drive (deal expired) Storage expansion for gamers Sarah Tew/CNET It's pretty easy to fill up the storage space on your gaming console, which is where an external drive like the WD Black P10 comes in. Starting out around $85 for the 2TB version, this compact drive attaches to the USB port on your PlayStation 4 or XBox One and immediately gives you a lot more room to store your games (and not worry about deleting titles as you add new ones). At $100, the 3TB capacity is a good value and you can go all the way up to 5TB for around $120. The drive also comes in an Xbox version with a white trim (pictured on right). Either version can also be used with PCs and uses a USB 3.2 Gen 1 interface. It's not as fast as a more expensive SSDs (solid-state drives), but the P10 has transfer speeds of up to 130 MB/S. Your games will run just fine from it. This deal has gone up to $110. $110 at Best Buy Mealthy CrispLid (deal expired) Turn your Instant Pot into an air fryer Mealthy Ignore the goofy name: If you're buying a gift for any Instant Pot lover (with a 6 quart or larger unit), the Mealthy CrispLid is an ideal add-on. For under $60, this accessory turns the trusty pressure cooker into a full-on air fryer. We tried it -- and it turned even a pressure cooker skeptic into a believer. Special offer: Use code CHOWHOUND10 for $10 off your total of $59.95 and up at Mealthy.com. Looking for more? Check out our list of Best Instant Pot accessories. See at Mealthy CNET Holiday Gift Guide 2019 Holiday gift guide 2019: CNET editors' top picks Stocking stuffers: Best tech gifts under $25 Best holiday gifts for under $50 Best holiday gifts under $100 for 2019 Best holiday gifts under $250 for 2019 Best holiday gifts under $500 for 2019 CNET editors' 2019 holiday picks 19 Photos Read more: Best food and drink advent calendars This story was published earlier this year and has been updated with additional product picks and links. Comments Holiday Gift Guide 2019 The Cheapskate Black Friday 2019 Cyber Monday 2019 Media Streamers Gadgets Small Appliances Fitbit Nest Belkin Amazon Bluetooth Google Roku Apple Notification on Notification off Deals Close Discuss: Best last-minute gifts under $100 this holiday season Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.