https://www.cnet.com/news/crave-talk-apple-dont-make-me-jump/
Crave Talk: Apple, don't make me jump! - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Crave Talk: Apple, don't make me jump! Apple's happy pipe has been relaxing over the last few weeks, but there's pressure building up down the line. It's Big White's 30th birthday on Saturday and something's liable to explode... Chris Stevens March 30, 2006 6:15 AM PST We've reached an interesting point in Apple's media-darling status when Joy of Tech runs cartoons in which journalists are driven to commit suicide on discovering that Apple will not be holding a 30th anniversary event. Personally, I'm there. I'm literally out on the window ledge. There is a collective fear that, come Saturday, the section of the wall-planner marked 'cover massive Apple announcement' will read like a cruel morality tale. Seppuku may be rather fiddly, but if Apple doesn't deliver, will there be any choice for the self-respecting hack but to die with honour? In an industry that is largely uninventive with its showmanship, Apple knows how to draw a crowd. Companies like Microsoft rain screenshots of products like Vista for years before their release, but Apple sits quiet and tight-lipped. If there's anything that drives me crazy, it's a company openly keeping things from us. If there's anything that drives me foaming rabid, it's when that company is Apple. Ever since Apple launched the 20th anniversary Mac, fans have anticipated a radical new Mac design at every significant milestone. Despite no anniversary Mac before Apple's 20th, there was plenty of speculation on their 25th that the company would release a 'special Mac' to mark the occasion, yet there was nothing. Now the company is hitting the big three-oh, it seems strange to imagine the event might pass without something to mark it. As always, there are rumours of products: a touchscreen iPod here, a gamer's iMac there, an Apple phone -- but Apple hasn't announced a press event. Judging from the frenzy the rumour sites have built up, you'd guess that Steve Jobs will at least have to walk out onto the lawn in Cupertino, light a few fireworks and make some whooping noises. It's that or risk an international incident. Screenshots of a new touchscreen iPod (most of them demonstrably fake) have appeared on MacRumors, along with an old patent Apple filed that might support this idea, while Mac OS Rumors posted a story on the rumoured iPhone. More fuel for this fire comes from Australian site Smarthouse, who posted a story earlier in the month suggesting Apple was sourcing parts for the iPhone from Taiwanese manufacturers. Unfortunately, all the other references to the phone also use this antipodean news piece as their only source. Predictably, dubious photographs of posters like this are also circulating. As the blogging world watches and waits for what Saturday will bring, our sense of excitement is tinged with fear. The sash window is drawn, my rings are in the top drawer, I've written a short poem on a Post-it note, and iTunes is playing Counting Crows. The stage is set. Don't make me do it Apple, don't make me jump! -Chris Stevens Comments MP3 Players Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Crave Talk: Apple, don't make me jump! Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.