https://www.cnet.com/news/coffee-products-you-never-knew-you-needed-in-2019/
Best coffee accessories of 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best coffee accessories of 2020 Life is way too short for bad coffee. Chowhound Staff March 7, 2020 11:52 AM PST Chemex A "good" cup of coffee means something different for all coffee lovers, ranging from a cup of dark, almost chewy truckstop coffee to a lighter-bodied pour over made with meticulous timing and measurements. Even if you feel satisfied by your usual go-to cup of joe, the best coffee accessories can take your coffee to the next level. If you're willing to step (or even tiptoe) outside the comfort zone around your tried-and-true favorite brewing process, you may find that an even better cup of coffee, or espresso, or iced coffee, or even instant coffee is within reach. Read more: The best coffee grinder you can buy right now Burr coffee grinder Amazon The simplest and most effective change you can make to your coffee routine, regardless of how you brew, is to grind your own coffee beans. Conical burr grinders allow for more control over the grain size of your ground coffee than more common metal blade grinders. Something like this electric burr coffee grinder lets you easily switch between coarsely ground coffee and finely ground coffee, unleashing the flavor inside of whole beans for whichever brew method you choose. If you're feeling particularly adventurous, you could even try roasting your own beans for a freshly roasted cuppa. $87 at Amazon Burr ceramic manual grinder Amazon If you're traveling, this manual travel coffee grinder is small enough to bring to work or on vacation. Since it's completely hand-powered, there's no need to worry about having an outlet nearby. And this hand grinder goes well with other man-powered gadgets like your mortar and pestle, your hand-crank egg beater or your old-timey butter churn. $20 at Amazon Read more: Best travel coffee mugs for 2020 Bodum French press Amazon A French press might be familiar to you, and you may already own one (or three -- seems like it's an easy gift!). But, if you regularly brew with an auto-drip coffee machine, you might want to bust out or buy a French press and enjoy an extra-flavorful beverage on the mornings when you've got a few more minutes to yourself. Grind your coffee extra coarse and bring out the French press to add a little romance to your usual coffee routine. Fun fact: You can also brew loose-leaf tea in your French press. Coffee and tea drinkers rejoice! $15 at Amazon Pour-over coffee If you've never tried pour-over coffee, either at a local coffee shop or at home, prepare for a completely different world of great coffee. Pour over methods release layers of flavor you never knew coffee could have: fruity, chocolatey, earthy, floral, juicy -- coffee drinks can taste like all of these and more without going to the coffee shop. At home, try brewing with one of these, which each require their own type of paper filter. You'll add a little extra time to your coffee ritual, but you will be rewarded with a cup of piping hot coffee that will have you savoring every precious drop of flavor. Pour-over coffee makers can also double as portable coffee makers. All you need is the accompanying hot water. Hario ceramic coffee dripper Amazon This Japanese pour over dripper can be used with your mug for a single serving or placed above a large carafe for a big batch of several mugs of delicious coffee if you've got company (or it's just one of those mornings). $22 at Amazon Read more: How to make good coffee while traveling Chemex glass pour-over Amazon With an eight-cup capacity, this classic pour-over maker has a chemical lab feel and is still a fine choice both aesthetically and functionally. $43 at Amazon Gooseneck pour-over kettle Amazon For pour-over coffee methods, you'll want a good gooseneck kettle. Heat up cold water in something like this kettle, and the narrow spout will give you the control you need to distribute hot water over your coffee grounds (or tea), first to help "bloom" the coffee grounds, and then to evenly "pour over" the rest of the water. $45 at Amazon Bonavita gooseneck kettle Amazon Take it a step further with this digital kettle, which allows you to select the appropriate temperature you need for your favorite coffee brewing method or loose leaf tea. The water will get hot quickly and precisely, setting you up for a superbly flavored cup of coffee or tea. $51 at Amazon Read more: The best espresso machines for 2020 Ozeri digital scale Amazon If you've got the pour over and the kettle, and you're committed to seeing this brew process through to the end, then take the red pill and get yourself a kitchen scale, too. This digital kitchen scale will help you achieve the ideal ratio of beans to hot water, so that you don't end up with a coffee that is too bitter or too weak. Precision is essential to great coffee (And tea. And hot chocolate.). $15 at Amazon Read more: The best coffee makers: Bonavita, Ninja, Oxo, Moccamaster and more AeroPress coffee and espresso maker Amazon There are still other methods for brewing coffee -- and one of these is done via the wonderful AeroPress. Using these circular coffee filters, the AeroPress is small and lightweight, making it perfect for packing in your carry-on. It's kind of like the next step after the French press, creating a smoother cup of coffee by way of pushing the coffee through a paper filter. And, cleanup is even easier -- you're left with a puck-shaped cake of coffee grounds that you simply push into the trash (or into your compost bin) and then a quick rinse of the AeroPress sets you up for the next cup. $30 at Amazon Bialetti Moka stovetop coffee maker Amazon Turn up the whimsy with this Bialetti stovetop espresso maker, preferably in a bright color. There is something very satisfying about watching coffee bubble up the spout and into the pour section of one of these portable espresso makers (also called a Moka Pot). As pretty as they are functional, these items are great to leave out as conversation pieces. Make coffee while camping by placing this coffee maker over your portable burner. $25 at Amazon Cold brew coffee kit Amazon This cold brew coffee kit with a Mason jar and stainless steel fine-mesh filter can take you there. The slower process unlocks milder, smoother coffee flavors, leaving you to add milk or sugar to your drink only if you're looking for some extra indulgence. $27 at Amazon Read more: 8 gifts for coffee lovers Breville precision brewer Amazon If you're really in the mood to treat yourself, this automatic pour-over coffee maker will do the trick. Take all the guesswork out of a perfectly crafted hot cup of delicious coffee -- this machine heats, times and pours the water for you so that you get the pour over flavor complexity without risking a case of barista elbow. $256 at Amazon PS: The beans All these gadgets will help you make a better cup of coffee, certainly, but to achieve a truly great brew, you have to start with a strong foundation: the coffee beans! When purchasing a bag of beans, look for a roast date within the last few weeks or sooner. Freshly roasted beans will get you the most flavor and keep your coffee fresh. A local coffee roaster will be your best bet but there are online options, too. Bags of Intelligentsia coffee smell amazing and give you a preview of the flavors you'll get in your brewed coffee, and some brands of coffee will even benefit a charity, as with Grounds & Hounds ("Every pound saves a hound!"). Whether you prefer specialty coffee, iced coffee, dark roast coffee or even anything a step above instant coffee, any of the above will help you explore new ways to enjoy great coffee. And for coffee enthusiasts, that's really what life is all about. As Johann Sebastian Bach said, "Without my morning coffee I'm just like a dried up piece of roast goat." Don't be a dried up piece of roast goat -- make a good cup of coffee. Read more: The best coffee subscription services Now playing: Watch this: Ninja's coffee maker brews well in many ways 1:31 Originally published last year and updated periodically. Comments Appliances Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: Best coffee accessories of 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.