https://www.cnet.com/news/5g-not-just-speed-fifth-generation-wireless-tech-lets-you-do-vr-self-driving-cars-drones-remote/
Not just speed: 7 incredible things you can do with 5G - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Not just speed: 7 incredible things you can do with 5G The next generation of wireless tech is more than just a boost for your phone. Think self-driving cars, telemedicine and VR reaching their true potential. Roger Cheng March 2, 2017 5:00 AM PST Leer en español I try my hand at remote surgery via a special glove, virtual reality and 5G. Celso Bulgatti/CNET You can't walk around Mobile World Congress without 5G slapping you in the face. If there's a phenomenon that's dominated this week's trade show besides the return of a 17-year-old phone, it's the reality that the next generation of cellular technology has arrived. Well, at least it's real in the confines of the Fira Gran Via convention center in Barcelona. Above the Qualcomm booth flashed the slogan: "5G: From the company that brought you 3G and 4G." If you took a few more steps, you could hear an Intel representative shout about the benefits of 5G. If you hopped over to Ericsson, you'd find a "5G avenue" with multiple exhibits demonstrating the benefits of the technology. Samsung kicked off its press conference not with its new tablets, but with a chat about 5G. More Mobile World Congress stories Nokia's nostalgia trap: The old-is-hot 3310 Moto Z, this is your mission: Make Motorola cool again LG G6 to Samsung Galaxy S8: Catch me if you can Nokia and Google: Tech's most unlikely BFFs I just rescued a Nokia 3310 from a back-street black market The hype around 5G has been brewing for more than a year, but we're finally starting to see the early research and development bear fruit. The technology promises to change our lives by connecting everything around us to a network that is 100 times faster than our cellular connection and 10 times faster than our speediest home broadband service. But it's not just about speed for speed's sake. While the move from 3G to 4G LTE was about faster connections, the evolution to 5G is so much more. The combination of speed, responsiveness and reach could unlock the full capabilities of other hot trends in technology, offering a boost to self-driving cars, drones, virtual reality and the internet of things. "If you just think of speed, you don't see the magic of all it can do," said Jefferson Wang, who follows the mobile industry for IBB Consulting. 5G is more than just speed, even if it'll be faster than your home broadband connection. Roger Cheng/CNET The bad news: 5G is still a while away for consumers, and the industry is still fighting over the nitty-gritty details of the technology itself. The good news: There's a chance it's coming sooner than we thought. It's clear why the wireless carriers are eager to move to 5G. With the core phone business slowing down, companies are eager for new tech to spark excitement and connect more devices. "We are absolutely convinced that 5G is the next revolution," Tim Baxter, president of Samsung's US unit, said during a press conference Sunday. Here's just a taste of what 5G will be able to unlock. Remote surgery Beyond speed, the biggest benefit of 5G is its low latency, or the short lag time between a device pinging the network and getting a response. While not necessarily noticeable, there is a lag with 4G LTE. A 5G network virtually eliminates it, meaning a surgeon may not need to be in the same room as a patient in the future. Now playing: Watch this: 5G lets you remotely perform surgery with a robot arm 1:08 Ericsson, working with startup NeuroDigital Technologies and doctors at King's College London, used a dummy patient to demonstrate how a surgeon could use a VR headset and special glove to control a robot arm that would perform an actual operation in another location. The glove was fitted with haptic feedback motors that buzzed when you touched the dummy's organ, giving you the sensation that you were actually touching it. Companies are calling this idea the "internet of skills" that would enable you to transfer your expertise over a great distance in real time using robotics and haptic feedback. Without the real-time 5G connection, the whole setup would be impossible. A touchy-feely internet The surgery feedback is just one example of how touch will play into the 5G network. With haptic feedback, you'll be able to transmit the tactile sensation of experience, enhancing the sights and sounds of a video experience. Another Ericsson setup put you in the driver's seat of a car 50 kilometers away from the Fira. Thanks to the feedback system built into the chair, you could feel yourself going over speed bumps and crashing into cones -- which I did at an alarming rate. "In order to touch and feel things miles away, you need low latency," Sprint Chief Technology Officer John Saw said in an interview Monday. That will have applications in the industrial area, including having humans overseeing robotic assembly. It's the first time the network will be faster than your mind, Ericsson Chief Technology Officer Ulf Ewaldson said in an interview Wednesday. Self-driving cars While companies like Google and Uber are investing in self-driving cars now, many in the industry don't believe a fully autonomous vehicle is possible without a 5G network. "We are absolutely convinced that 5G is the next revolution." Tim Baxter, president of Samsung's US unit. That instantly responsive network and ubiquitous coverage means the cars will be able to use 5G to talk to other cars and sensors built around the city, from street lamps to gas stations. "It not just about the cars," Adam Koeppe, vice president of network planning for Verizon, said in an interview Monday. "It's about urban design and technology." Drones Similarly, 5G will unlock the true capability of drones. Lynn Comp, director of market development at Intel, cited the example of a drone flying over an oil drill with a video camera. The network will allow for precise control of the drone, while sending back high-definition video. Virtual reality VR was a huge trend at last year's Mobile World Congress. But the technology took a back seat this year with little new hardware other than an update from Samsung. Meanwhile, virtual reality is in the hands of filmmakers, and it seems more happened at the recent Sundance Film Festival than at MWC. Samsung's Gear VR gets a controller 9 Photos If there was any VR at Mobile World Congress, much of it was part of a demonstration of how 5G could enhance the experience, allowing you to chat in real time with live-streaming virtual worlds. Sprint Chief Operating Officer Gunther Ottendorfer said he expects to see a return of game arcades -- but focused on virtual reality. Guaranteed awesomeness Do you want to make sure you always have a dependable connection? 5G might be able to help with that. Phone companies already offer "service-level agreements" that guarantee a connection for mission-critical businesses and applications. With 5G, the networks will be smart enough to offer those guarantees to individuals. Of course, don't expect it to be cheap. Home broadband The most obvious application of 5G is as a replacement for traditional home internet service. And it's coming really soon, with Verizon and AT&T already investing in trials in the US. Of course, phones will eventually get the 5G treatment. Roger Gurnani, chief information and technology architect for Verizon, teased coming back to Barcelona next year with a 5G phone. That may prove overly ambitious, but Gurnani and the rest of the industry know there's a lot of work ahead and high customer expectations to fill. In the end, that's their priority. "It's not about the Gs," John Stankey, head of AT&T's entertainment business, said in a keynote Monday. "It's not about 5G or 5 gigs. It's going to be about more." Virtual reality 101: CNET tells you everything you need to know about VR. Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility. Mobile World Congress 2020 See All • reading Not just speed: 7 incredible things you can do with 5G • Mar 12 I got a peek at what your 5G-enabled AR home office could look like • Feb 27 LG's V60 ThinQ phone sees double in blue and white • Feb 26 Hands-on LG V60 ThinQ: 5G with 8K video and dual-screen • Feb 25 New details on Qualcomm's 5G VR prototypes: Cloud rendering, eye tracking, high-res displays Comments Mobile World Congress 2020 5G AT&T Huawei Samsung Ericsson Sprint Verizon Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Not just speed: 7 incredible things you can do with 5G Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.