https://www.cnet.com/news/sprint-nextel-ceo-forced-out/
Sprint Nextel CEO forced out - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Sprint Nextel CEO forced out Sprint's CEO has stepped down amid pressure from investors who think the company needs new blood to revitalize its business. Marguerite Reardon October 8, 2007 3:16 PM PDT Sprint Nextel said Monday that CEO Gary Forsee has stepped down as chairman and chief executive officer effective immediately. Sprint Nextel Forsee's departure comes as investors, upset over the company's poor performance, have put pressure on the board of directors to make a change at the top. The company said Chief Financial Officer Paul Saleh will become acting CEO until the board is able to find a replacement for Forsee. And board member James Hance, Jr., will assume the role as a non-executive chairman of the board, the company said. Board member Irvine Hockaday said the company is focusing its search on candidates outside the company. "We fully expect that the search will be concluded in a timely manner and we are focused on selecting the right candidate to guide the company to achieve its full potential," Hockaday said in a statement. "Sprint Nextel has the assets, spectrum, customer base and technology to be the leader in wireless mobility services." In the same press release Sprint also revealed more subscribers losses for the third quarter. The company expects to report that it has lost about 337,000 post paid subscribers when it reports third quarter earnings on November 1. Post paid customers are ones who sign up for annual contracts and are billed monthly. The company also lowered its financial guidance for 2007. Pressure has been building for months to replace Forsee as investors are becoming increasingly more agitated at Sprint's poor performance. Since Sprint acquired Nextel in 2005, making it the third largest cell phone provider in the U.S., the company's stock has declined roughly 27 percent. Last week, activist investor Ralph Whitworth, who owns about 2 percent of Sprint's outstanding stock, told the Wall Street Journal that he had lost confidence in Forsee and expected to board to take action. Among Whitworth's biggest concerns is Sprint's focus on building a next generation wireless network using a technology called WiMax. The company has committed itself to spending $5 billion by 2010 to build the network. Whitworth is concerned the company is not focusing enough on its core cell phone business, which has been steadily losing customers over the past few quarters. Earlier this year, Sprint signed a deal to partner with a company called Clearwire to bring WiMax to even more cities. The two companies predict that together, by the end of 2008, they will offer mobile WiMax network access to about 100 million people. How the management change will impact the nationwide WiMax network is still uncertain. But it's certainly possible that a new CEO could significantly scale back the aggressive plans. A Sprint representative was unavailable for comment. EarthLink, which is also struggling to sign up new customers for its Internet services, had a change of heart with regard to its Wi-Fi network plans when a new CEO came on board and assessed the situation. I'll be taking a closer look at this issue in a follow-up story. So stay tuned. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Sprint Nextel CEO forced out Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.