https://www.cnet.com/news/the-little-schiit-headphone-amp-makes-a-big-sound/
The little Schiit headphone amp makes a big sound - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In The little Schiit headphone amp makes a big sound The Audiophiliac checks out Schiit's totally tube, made-in-the-US headphone amplifier. It's really good! Steve Guttenberg September 27, 2014 6:00 AM PDT Schiit Valhalla 2 Schiit Schiit (rhymes with split) has long been an Audiophiliac favorite manufacturer of headphone amplifiers and USB digital converters. Their newly revised Valhalla 2 is the company's only all-tube amp. It really comes to life playing high-impedance headphones, like my Sennheiser HD 580 (300 ohms) and my Beyerdynamic T-1 (600 ohms), but I also had great results with my Grado RS-1 (32 ohm) headphones. Of course, any reasonably well-designed amp or AV receiver can play any headphone, but the Valhalla 2 can do a better job tapping the headphones full potential. The Valhalla 2's all-metal chassis looks just like all the other little Schiits that have passed through my desktop system, but unlike the older amps, the Valhalla 2 sports preamplifier outputs, so it can be used with a stereo amp to drive speakers or a pair of powered desktop speakers. It's an all-tube design, with a single voltage gain stage, current source biased front-end and optimized WCF output stage, and a DC-coupled input. Translation: it sounds good. The Valhalla 2 is small enough to fit on a desktop; it's just 9 x 6 x 3.25 inches (229 x 153 x 82 mm), and it weighs 7 pounds (3.2 kg). The amp runs hot to the touch, and you definitely don't want small children touching the tubes when they're on. Listening to my Sennheiser HD 700 (150 ohm) headphones with the Valhalla 2, my single-word description of the sound would be " beautiful." Sure, it's clear and clean, but the Valhalla 2 imparts a sense of beauty to the sound of well-recorded acoustic instruments. There's more substance to the sound, it's more organic and full-bodied, which is, after all, the way those instruments sound in real life. Some might say the Valhalla 2 changes the sound of the music; it makes sound a bit warmer and fuller than accurate. I agree, it does. But there's more to the sound than just that -- the Valhalla 2 seems to also breathe life into the sound of reproduced music. If you want your sound straight up, save $100 and get the solid-state Schiit Asgard 2; it's a wonderful sounding amp. Schiit Valhalla 2's rear panel Schiit Moving on to the Beyerdynamic T-1 headphone, the sound has more body; it feels weightier, with even more detail and air than that from the HD 700. So I wouldn't say the Valhalla 2 is soft and flabby sounding, but it's capable of taking your headphone's sound to the next level, if you already own a fairly decent set of headphones. Some tube headphone amps aren't suitable for use with in-ear headphones, but the Valhalla 2 clicked with my Logitech UE 900 in-ears. The sound balance was very warm but very pleasant. The Valhalla 2, like all Schiits, is made in California. The warranty runs five years. I have two more Schiit products in my queue, and those reviews will show up before the end of the year. The Schiit Valhalla 2 is priced at $349 (US), £265 from Electromod in the UK, and AU$579 via Australia's Addicted to Audio. The company offers 115/230 volt models and ships worldwide. Comments The Audiophiliac Headphones Home Entertainment Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: The little Schiit headphone amp makes a big sound Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.