https://www.cnet.com/news/amd-delaying-barcelona-volume-shipments-to-next-year/
AMD delaying Barcelona volume shipments to next year - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In AMD delaying Barcelona volume shipments to next year A bug in Barcelona, AMD's new quad-core server chip, will force the company to delay volume shipments into next year, although the chip is shipping to some high-performance computing customers. Tom Krazit December 5, 2007 2:34 PM PST AMD will be forced to delay the ramp of its Barcelona server processor after running into a bug, the company has confirmed. Barcelona, AMD's first quad-core processor for servers, is shipping to some customers in the high-performance computing market. But the company had hoped to start shipping it to a wider variety of customers this month, as well as introduce a faster model that could better compete with Intel's latest Penryn chips. Unfortunately for AMD, that's going to have to wait, according to a company spokesman. The Tech Report has an excellent description of the problem that AMD encountered with the translation lookaside buffer used in cache memory, which also affects the Phenom desktop chips. I'm not even going to attempt to explain to you exactly what that means, check out Scott Wasson's article for a detailed look at that. Bottom line, however: Barcelona's arrival on the main stage is going to be delayed, again. Even though the company has developed a workaround for the errata, this is awful news for AMD. Every chip company will come across errata (think of them like bugs in a new OS release) with the arrival of a new chip. Most of them are minor, and can be fixed pretty quickly after launch with a simple code update. This one requires a bit more work, hence the delay. Still, it's far from a disaster: it's not like AMD is recalling the chip. The problem is more one of confidence in the company's ability to get products out the door. By the time Barcelona really starts to hit its stride in the first quarter of next year, it will have been almost a year since AMD originally intended to launch the chip. AMD needs Barcelona not only as a boost for the company's psyche but also as a profit engine: server chips are way more profitable than PC chips. And in the meantime, Intel is firing on all cylinders. Its second-generation Penryn quad-core processors are available from server vendors and in standalone boxes from companies like Newegg. And the next generation of chips, called Nehalem, will borrow the design techniques that have made AMD's chips so successful over the last few years. AMD's stock fell 3.68 percent to a 52-week low of $8.91 Tuesday on the news, which also prompted a financial analyst to cut a revenue estimate. This came on a day when the overall market was up sharply. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: AMD delaying Barcelona volume shipments to next year Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.