https://www.cnet.com/news/buzz-growing-about-scaled-down-iphone-for-the-holidays/
Buzz growing about scaled-down iPhone for the holidays - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Buzz growing about scaled-down iPhone for the holidays AppleInsider has joined the ranks of those who believe Apple has a less expensive iPhone waiting in the wings. Tom Krazit July 19, 2007 2:01 PM PDT If you like the iPhone but can't swing the purchase price, you might not have to wait long for a cheaper alternative. AppleInsider is reporting that Apple has a second iPhone in the works for later this year that won't be quite as capable as the one currently out in the wild, but that will cost less and resemble the iPod Nano. The site based its report on the word of "extremely reputable sources" that declined to be named, presumably for fear of losing their jobs. A smaller, cheaper iPhone could be arriving later this year, according to a new report. CNET Networks This rumor cropped up last week with the back-and-forth between financial analysts from JPMorgan Chase in Taiwan and New York. Kevin Chang had issued a report similiar to the one posted by AppleInsider Thursday, claiming that Apple had a cheaper iPhone in the works that incorporated a number of new interface technologies, such as a touchscreen click-wheel similar to the iPod interface. But his colleagues in New York expressed skepticism at that notion, figuring that Apple would add technologies like 3G data networking before overhauling the user interface on a brand new product. That still seems to make the most sense to me. Apple has said it will have an iPhone ready for the European market before the end of the year, and it would be pretty foolish to enter the European market--where faster cellular networks are prevalent--without a 3G phone. Such a handset could easily be tweaked for AT&T's U.S. network, giving prospective iPhone customers a faster option and a new model to promote during the holiday shopping season. But price is still an obstacle to iPhone adoption, so a lower-cost model would also make sense. What is interesting--and confusing--about these reports, however, is the notion that Apple would introduce a new iPhone interface after having spent all that time and effort on commercials and videos demonstrating how to use the current iPhone interface. We'll have to see what else shakes out over the next couple of months. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Buzz growing about scaled-down iPhone for the holidays Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.