https://www.cnet.com/news/at-t-and-verizon-swap-wireless-assets/
AT&T and Verizon swap wireless assets - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In AT&T and Verizon swap wireless assets AT&#38;T said it will buy the Alltel assets that Verizon Wireless needs to shed, and Verizon will buy some assets from AT&#38;T's purchase of Centennial Wireless. Marguerite Reardon May 11, 2009 11:24 AM PDT AT&T said it will pay $2.35 billion in cash to buy the bulk of the Alltel Wireless assets that Verizon Communications must divest as part of its acquisition of Alltel, the company announced Friday. As part of the deal, AT&T will get wireless spectrum licenses, network assets, and 1.5 million subscribers in 79 service areas. Verizon Wireless was required to sell assets in parts of 18 different states as a condition for getting regulatory approval to buy Alltel. The Verizon-Alltel deal, valued at $28.1 billion, was announced in June 2008, and closed in January this year. After the merger, Verizon Wireless became the largest U.S. wireless operator, surpassing AT&T in terms of subscribers. So what does this mean for former Alltel wireless customers? Well, for customers in parts of Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Tennessee, Utah, Virginia, and Wyoming, it means that they will become AT&T wireless customers. The asset acquisition also included a few markets from Verizon Wireless and the former Rural Cellular, AT&T said in its statement. The old Rural Cellular, or Unicel as it was also called, had operations in parts of Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Alabama, Mississippi, Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wisconsin, Idaho, Washington, and Oregon. AT&T said in its statement that after the network and billing integration is complete, the new AT&T customers will have access to all the same phones and service plans available to all its AT&T customers, including free Wi-Fi for 3G LaptopConnect customers and qualified smartphone subscribers. And for interested rural wireless customers, it will be the first chance to get their hands on the popular iPhone, which is exclusively sold in the U.S. to operate on AT&T's network. These customers will also get access to other AT&T exclusive devices, such as the BlackBerry Bold. AT&T's executives said that acquiring these assets helps fill a hole in its offering to rural subscribers. "This transaction will complement our existing network coverage, particularly in rural areas," Ralph de la Vega, president and CEO of AT&T Mobility and Consumer Markets, said in a statement. "The acquisition will add network assets, distribution channels and 850 MHz spectrum in a significant portion of the U.S., enabling even better coverage for AT&T's subscribers in those areas." Also, as part of the deal, AT&T is selling Verizon its former Centennial Wireless properties. This deal, worth $240 million, includes licenses, network assets and nearly 120,000 current subscribers, in five service areas in Louisiana and Mississippi. The deal is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2009, contingent on regulatory approval, AT&T said. Comments Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: AT&T and Verizon swap wireless assets Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.