https://www.cnet.com/news/amd-dirk-meyer-and-the-eternal-corporate-battle/
AMD, Dirk Meyer, and the eternal corporate battle - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In AMD, Dirk Meyer, and the eternal corporate battle Concerns over AMD's succession plans come at a difficult time for the company, and revive that old tug-of-war between marketing and engineering. Tom Krazit January 3, 2008 10:48 AM PST AMD's latest bust cycle could have come at a better time for the career aspirations of Dirk Meyer. The chip company's president and chief operating officer has taken on more responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the company in the past year, but the results have not been pretty. Of course, it's not all Meyer's fault that AMD had a year to forget, losing well over a billion dollars and suffering through a series of embarrassing engineering glitches. President and COO Dirk Meyer AMD But, like it or not, he's the guy at the wheel. And he's also the guy that Chairman and CEO Hector Ruiz has tapped to be his successor once Ruiz is ready to retire, or once the company's board of directors decides he's ready. Meyer is a legendary engineer, having overseen two of the most important processor designs of the last 20 years, but some current and former colleagues aren't sure he has the sales chops to lead a major tech company. Check out our story Thursday on AMD and Meyer. An interesting sideline debate is starting to get going over that eternal question: Which group is the star at a tech company? Marketing or engineering? There's still a huge cultural divide between the two, and a CEO has to lead both organizations. He or she has to be someone who commands the respect of engineering while motivating the marketing types. Someone who has the courage to kill an ill-conceived product idea and the patience to hammer out favorable deals with suppliers and customers. Maybe Meyer is just what AMD needs, a back-to-basics kind of leader. But how will he fare negotiating supply deals with Michael Dell and Hewlett-Packard's Mark Hurd? That's the question on the minds of AMD's board of directors as they evaluate Meyer over the new year. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: AMD, Dirk Meyer, and the eternal corporate battle Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.