https://www.cnet.com/news/amazon-launches-multi-room-music-playback-for-alexa/
Amazon launches multiroom music playback for Alexa - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Amazon launches multiroom music playback for Alexa Finally, Alexa can control multiple speakers at once. Ry Crist August 29, 2017 7:56 AM PDT Chris Monroe/CNET If you've got a couple of Amazon's Alexa-enabled smart speakers scattered throughout your home, then here's some news you've probably been waiting to hear. Starting today in the US, UK and Germany, you can sync those speakers up for whole-home audio playback, or tell one speaker to play music on another. To get started, you'll need to open up the Alexa app and make sure each speaker has a name that's easy to remember (Amazon recommends using the room the speaker is in). Once you've done that, you'll be able to tell Alexa to play music on a specific speaker by using its name, a la "Alexa, play Beyonce in the kitchen." Got an Echo device in every room of the house? Now, you can group them together for synchronized music playback. Chris Monroe/CNET You'll also be able to group your speakers together, then tell Alexa to play music through one of those groups. For instance, if you had an Echo in the living room and an Echo Dot in the kitchen, you could group them together as "downstairs" in the Alexa app, then say, "Alexa, play White Reaper downstairs." Your music would begin to play through both speakers simultaneously. That sort of synchronized playback has long been one of the most oft-requested Alexa features. Launching it now should also help Amazon's increasingly personal assistant stave off competition from the Google Home smart speaker, which already offers multi-device playback. In addition to the Echo and the Echo Dot, multiroom support will also work with the touchscreen-equipped Amazon Echo Show, but not the battery-powered Amazon Tap, Amazon confirmed. Third-party Alexa-enabled devices from outside manufacturers won't work at launch, either -- but that won't be the case for long. Early next year, Amazon plans to launch new software tools to help those manufacturers take advantage of Alexa's multiroom controls. Once they do, you'll be able to group those third-party Alexa devices with your Echoes, Echo Shows, and Echo Dots for synchronized playback of whatever music you like. In addition, Amazon is launching a developer preview of new software that will let the makers of non-Alexa-enabled internet-connected speakers add in Alexa controls via an outside Echo device. Amazon tells us that it's working with Sonos, Bose, Sound United and Samsung to get those kinds of integrations across the finish line, and from the sounds of it, the Sonos integration could be here within weeks. At launch, multiroom playback will work with Amazon Music, TuneIn, iHeartRadio and Pandora. Support for Spotify and SiriusXM is coming soon, Amazon says. Just how many products have Alexa built in? 27 Photos CNET Smart Home See All • reading Amazon launches multiroom music playback for Alexa • Mar 27 Here's the best Wi-Fi range extender for almost everybody • Mar 27 The best coffee grinder you can buy right now • Mar 26 9 online cooking classes to keep you full and fulfilled • Mar 26 Ode to the $5 pot scraper Comments CNET Smart Home Smart Home Wireless & Bluetooth Speakers Alexa Notification on Notification off Amazon Close Discuss: Amazon launches multiroom music playback for Alexa Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.