https://www.cnet.com/news/feds-to-require-open-wireless-networks/
Feds to require 'open' wireless networks? - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Feds to require 'open' wireless networks? Draft wireless auction rules being pondered at the FCC could be a victory for companies like Google that fear without government intervention, the same few companies will control coveted spectrum, limiting consumer choice. Anne Broache July 10, 2007 12:50 PM PDT As the government prepares to auction off a prized slice of wireless spectrum early next year, Google and a number of consumer advocacy groups have been pressuring federal regulators to impose some form of "open access" rules that would prevent only a few companies from controlling the coveted space. It appears the Federal Communications Commission may be poised to grant their request, according to various reports. According to draft auction ground rules seen by a Dow Jones reporter, the regulators are entertaining the idea of attaching open-access conditions to more than one-third of the portion of the 700 MHz broadcast TV band that they plan to auction off. Freeing up that spectrum for public safety and commercial uses is the major purpose of a long-discussed shift from analog to digital television scheduled for 2009. The band is such a hot commodity because its signals can travel farther and easily penetrate walls, which could foster cheaper, and more widespread, wireless broadband networks. An unnamed FCC official cited in the Dow Jones story said that two 11 MHz blocks would be bound by open access principles, which would mean that spectrum operators would have to allow consumers to use the wireless devices they wish and to load the applications they desire onto their gadgets, so long as they don't harm the network. FCC Chairman Kevin Martin seemed to confirm the agency was headed in that direction in an interview with USA Today published Monday. He was quoted as saying, "Whoever wins this spectrum has to provide...a truly open broadband network--one that will open the door to a lot of innovative services for consumers." Martin also reportedly said he was troubled that some wireless handset makers, at the request of U.S. mobile carriers, have stripped out features like Wi-Fi, whereas in Europe, consumers have had wider access to "unlocked" phones for years. Major wireless carriers have resisted calls for "open access" requirements for the upcoming auction because they say such decisions should be decided by the market. If companies like Google want to make use of the spectrum, they should bid accordingly and hope they win, not seek help through new regulations, the industry has said. Google's Washington telecommunications and media counsel, Richard Whitt, said in a blog post Tuesday morning that his company was still weighing whether it would make its own bids. After consulting with various experts, however, he added that the search giant had determined existing wireless carriers are likely to prevail against new mobile market entrants like Google--that is, unless the FCC requires various forms of openness. Whitt said he was also hearing "through the proverbial grapevine" that the FCC rules may be aligned with Google's wishes. "Obviously we'll need to see the fine print, but such a proposal would represent a step forward for new, innovative entrants to the broadband market," he wrote. A final version of the rules is expected to be made public by late July or early August, according to Dow Jones, and would then go to a vote before the five-member commission. Meanwhile, a House of Representatives committee on Wednesday morning plans to examine a similar set of issues at a hearing entitled "Wireless Innovation and Consumer Protection." (Click here for a PDF with more information.) Stay tuned to CNET News.com for coverage of Wednesday's congressional hearing and further analysis of the upcoming auction rules. Update at 11:15 a.m. PDT: At least one public-interest group that has been lobbying for open access rules--and their parallel on the Internet side, Net neutrality--is skeptical about just how "open" the FCC plans to make portions of the auctioned spectrum. In a blog post later on Tuesday morning, Public Knowledge spokesman Art Brodsky said it's great that Martin wants to allow consumers to have access to the mobile devices of their choosing. But if the FCC truly wants competition in the wireless broadband space, technology companies and public-interest groups want to see a requirement that spectrum auction winners "offer a slice of the space on a wholesale basis with no rules on what types of services or equipment could be offered," he wrote. Based on the news reports, it's hardly clear that's what Martin has in mind. Brodsky said he hoped other commissioners would be able to persuade him otherwise. Another update at 12:45 p.m. PDT: On the free-market-leaning side of the debate, Scott Cleland, who runs a group called Net Competition that represents the telecommunications and cable industries, has blasted the FCC's potential actions as "a multi-billion corporate welfare subsidy grant to Google." (Net Competition also despises the idea of Net neutrality laws.) In a blog entry, he said open access rules are completely unnecessary and could lead to a repeat of an early-1990s "fiasco" in which "hyper-regulatory conditions" on a spectrum auction left a chunk of it "fallow and in legal limbo." And besides, there's nothing stopping Google from bidding on the spectrum--after all, it's "no poverty case," Cleland wrote--and imposing its own open access requirements if it wins. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Feds to require 'open' wireless networks? Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.