https://www.cnet.com/news/great-online-cooking-classes/
9 online cooking classes to keep you full and fulfilled - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. 9 online cooking classes to keep you full and fulfilled Options for every budget, skill level and appetite. Pamela Vachon March 26, 2020 11:20 AM PDT Westend61/Getty Images Been meaning to improve your cooking skills? Just looking for something to do while you're stuck inside? Online cooking classes are better than ever, and these are some of our favorites -- including free and paid options. Cooking is a life skill that is never too late to learn, and in some moments, can feel borderline necessary, depending on your relationship with the concept of adulthood. What other hobby feeds all of your hungers -- intellectual, spiritual and also, like, your literal hunger? Beginning with James Beard and Julia Child in the middle of the 20th century, Americans have long held fascination with looking at our screens for cooking advice and instruction. Depending on your level of engagement with food television, however, you may have ever only come away from your screen with a stoked appetite and a flute-like intonation of phrases such as "delightful giblet gravy." Remote cooking instruction has evolved since then, and especially lately, with programming designed to educate you on principles -- not only recipes -- while you actually follow along in your own kitchen. These nine resources for online cooking instruction include single concept classes, multicourse modules and even getting an entire culinary degree online, with options for every budget and level of enthusiasm. Read more: Best meal kit delivery services of 2020 Instructables Instructables Instructables is a community-based, completely free set of photo tutorials that are perfect for getting set up in your own kitchen and gaining confidence with low commitment. You can enroll in Cooking Class, Bread Class or Meat Class for a series of lessons that begin with setup and tools, and work through products and techniques, arming you with the ability to accomplish basic skills that you can apply to any recipe. See at Instructables MasterClass MasterClass If your previous food TV consumption has left you longing for the opportunity to get chewed out by Gordon Ramsay, MasterClass may be the online cooking instruction for you. (Though no promises; he seems suspiciously polite in the previews…) Not only a cooking resource, MasterClass is a roundup of video tutorials, available for a $15 monthly membership fee or $90 for a single class, by experts in numerous fields. On the cooking front, Ramsay's colleagues include other legendary chefs such as Alice Waters, Thomas Keller, Dominique Ansel and others. You can even receive instruction in wine appreciation from Wine Spectator's James Suckling, if you've been meaning to take that on one of these days. See at MasterClass The Chef and the Dish The Chef and the Dish With The Chef and The Dish, a chef from just about anywhere on earth can join you in your kitchen in real time, via the social-distancing-approved method of Skype. Worldwide cuisine is represented authentically by chefs in those locations, whether you want to explore Brazilian steak, Hungarian goulash or Singaporean satay. An opportunity for social interaction with someone new, and maybe even an excuse to change out of your pajamas, the site is also offering a class on cooking with What's In Your Fridge right now, with no additional shopping required. This class is $99, but most others start at $299 for two people with an additional cost for extra students, and include an estimated additional grocery cost of $50. See at The Chef and the Dish Rouxbe Online Culinary School Rouxbe Rouxbe has an extremely flexible approach to online cooking instruction, where it's equally possible to dabble in occasional topical courses, or complete a professional six-month certification course, including one with a plant-based focus. For the committed, individual classes and certification courses have set costs, or you can grab a monthly membership for $9.99 (after a 30-day free trial) with the ability to complete shorter classes on your own timeline. Membership topics range from knife skills to egg basics to the art of the wok. See at Rouxbe Udemy Chowhound Udemy's online cooking courses are individually priced, with numerous discounts, featuring experts delivering multiple series of lectures on specific topics. There's Bartending Mastery ($20) if you're finding your personal cocktail construction leaves something to be desired, Sourdough 101 ($20) if you crave a comforting bakery smell at home or French Macarons ($30) if you need to have a serious project to focus on right now. See at Udemy The Kitchn Cooking School The Kitchn A curated series of 20 free videos with some broad culinary strokes as well as some deep topical dives, with pithy titles to entertain you. On day one begin with How to Be a Cook Who Can Wield a Knife with Confidence, and pass through How to be a Cook Who Makes Steaming Sexy and How to be a Cook Who Can Work Magic With Whipped Cream -- (wait, is this still cooking school?) -- before concluding with How To Be A Cook Who Makes Food Look as Good as It Tastes. (Whipped cream may or may not be necessary.) See at Kitchn America's Test Kitchen Cooking School America's Test Kitchen With the widest range of topics divided into Cooking Basics, Technique Lessons and Recipe Lessons, America's Test Kitchen offers culinary instruction to beginners and advanced cooks alike. Courses are catalogued not only by type of instruction, but also by degree of difficulty, and by main ingredient or recipe type. (It's possible to quickly search for "brunch" instruction, for example.) Depending on your enthusiasm, you can go all in for a year of access for $180, or $20 gets you a month of content, with a 14-day free trial. See at America's Test Kitchen Foodist Kitchen Foodist Kitchen Foodist's unique angle is "learn to cook without recipes in 30 days" by focusing on developing techniques and more importantly habits, which can be applied to whatever is on hand in your fridge or pantry. Cooking techniques are emphasized along with meal planning, food shopping and flavor layering. For those who want to learn to rely on instinct, rather than lists of ingredients and step-by-step instructions, a one-time $99 payment gets online students access to all instruction. See at Foodist Kitchen Auguste Escoffier School of Culinary Arts Auguste Escoffier School of Culinary Arts If you have the time, resources (about $18,000 to be exact) and wherewithal, you can actually earn a complete culinary diploma from the comfort of your own kitchen. You'll want to make sure your knives are sharp. See at Escoffier Schools CNET Smart Home See All • reading 9 online cooking classes to keep you full and fulfilled • Mar 27 How to keep your bread fresh for longer • Mar 27 The best Wi-Fi extender for almost everybody • Mar 27 The best coffee grinder you can buy right now Comments CNET Smart Home Appliances Online Notification on Notification off Smart Home Close Discuss: 9 online cooking classes to keep you full and fulfilled Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.