https://www.cnet.com/news/a-nice-yawn-while-others-wait-for-the-apple-press-conference/
A nice yawn while others wait for the Apple press conference - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In A nice yawn while others wait for the Apple press conference Am I the only person in the world who couldn't care less about tomorrow's Apple press conference? Don Reisinger September 4, 2007 4:32 PM PDT Ol' Stevie CNET Australia Am I the only person in the world who couldn't care less about tomorrow's Apple press conference? As I was reading the news, one story dominated headlines: Apple's big press conference tomorrow. And while I understand people get excited for this kind of thing because of the promise for new Apple products, I can't help but scoff at this excitement. What has happened to us? Why has an Apple press event become the most watched, read and listened to event in this industry? Millions will log on to popular blogs tomorrow to get live updates on what Stevie has to say. Doesn't everyone already know what he'll say anyway? Apple press events have become a showcase for Apple to talk about how well its products sell, the success it has achieved and an all-out schmooze fest that is rivaled by none. Oh, and Jobs unveils products too. I hate to be so blunt, but the writing is on the wall: Apple press events are about as exciting as watching paint dry. What makes an Apple press event so exciting to people? Is it Steve Jobs? New Apple products that everyone goes crazy over? Or is it the fact that it's hyped up by so many news sites that we can't help but be excited by new Apple news? I vote for this one. Have you ever heard of the old adage, "sex sells"? Well, guess what: Apple news sells too. Many readers like to hear about Apple news and enjoy the occasional rumor every now and then too. This is not to say that the Apple news isn't noteworthy -- most Apple products deserve the headline treatment. But what I am saying is, why do I need play-by-play coverage? When Sony, Microsoft, Dell, HP, Logitech, Samsung and others have a press event, we don't get the play-by-play. Some would say that it's because Apple structures its events differently, and that's true. But every single word is captured at an Apple event while other company events are quick news stories. I've got a news flash for you: most press events are boring. And if you ask me, Apple press events are pretty much the same. How many times can you listen to one man speak while the audience fawns over every word? Invariably you will be hearing these ludicrous descriptions of Jobs' announcement tomorrow: "what a speaker", "he knows how to captivate an audience", "he's the best", and my favorite, "this is the best Jobs presentation ever! How can he remember all of that without notes? He's a genius." Please. More than Microsoft in its heyday, Apple controls this entire industry, from suppliers to customers, media and beyond. Whether we want to admit it or not, tomorrow's news is something we can all read a day late -- there will be nothing too groundbreaking at that event that we don't already expect. Even better, head down to the Apple store about an hour after Jobs is done speaking and you'll discover everything you ever wanted to know about his announcement. But alas, most will watch, listen and read about tomorrow's announcement while it happens. But as for me? I'll wait for the real news stories to come out -- and yawn. Comments Notification on Notification off Smart Home Close Discuss: A nice yawn while others wait for the Apple press conference Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.