https://www.cnet.com/news/democrats-criticize-at-ts-exclusive-iphone-deal/
Democrats criticize AT&T's exclusive iPhone deal - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Democrats criticize AT&T's exclusive iPhone deal AT&#38;T's deal to sell the iPhone drew criticism from Democrats, and a defense from Republicans. The arrangement might lead to an open access requirement for a 700 MHz spectrum auction next year. Anne Broache July 11, 2007 2:22 PM PDT Editor's note: This story was updated at 1:35 p.m. PDT. WASHINGTON--AT&T's exclusive right to sell the Apple iPhone drew complaints on Wednesday from Democratic politicians, though it was unclear whether they were planning to do anything about it. "The problem with the iPhone is that the iPhone with AT&T is kind of like a 'Hotel California' service," Massachusetts Rep. Ed Markey said--in a nod to the Eagles hit, of course--during a hearing. "You can check out any time you like, but you can never leave." Special coverage iPhone: The wait is over News.com tracks handset's long-anticipated arrival. Even though the hearing before the House of Representatives subcommittee on the Internet was supposed to be about "wireless innovation and consumer protection," the iPhone popped up among Democrats as a subject of criticism--and, among Republicans, as an example of the free market and consumer choice in action. Neither Apple nor AT&T testified at the hearing. To be clear, there are no proposed laws, or even talk of proposed laws, that would forcibly divorce Apple from AT&T. The wireless carrier reportedly has an exclusive deal to sell the iPhone in the United States for the next five years. Rep. Ed Markey brandishes an iPhone while discussing the device at a Wednesday Capitol Hill event. U.S. House of Representatives Michigan Rep. Fred Upton, the top Republican on the subcommittee, said of the iPhone: "Its early success is an indication that the wireless market is in fact working. That iPhone is the newest mousetrap and now other carriers will be working to top it." A more likely possibility is for federal regulators to require an open network standard (that would permit all sorts of mobile devices from all kinds of companies to operate) when some of the valuable slice of spectrum known as the 700 MHz band is auctioned off early next year. "I think it's time that a consumer become the decider of what their phones do, not their cell provider," said Rep. Mike Doyle, a Pennsylvania Democrat. Google has been lobbying the Federal Communications Commission to permit just that, and FCC Chairman Kevin Martin seemed to confirm the agency was headed in that direction in an interview published Monday in USA Today. On Wednesday, Markey applauded that approach. The FCC "should seize this opportunity to create open access opportunity for wireless service," he said, and brought up the agency's 1968 Carterfone decision, which allowed non-AT&T devices to be connected to the telephone network. Update: Just to be clear, despite their gripes about the AT&T exclusivity and the $175 fee that accompanies ending the mandatory two-year contract early, Markey and some of his Democratic colleagues appeared perfectly smitten with the iPhone itself. Markey said it "demonstrates the sheer brilliance and wizardry of the new technologies which are available in wireless today" and commented that its Wi-Fi capabilities were a "welcome addition." The Massachusetts Democrat even gripped the gadget in his right hand while he delivered the iPhone-related portion of his opening statement, although it became evident upon later questioning from his fellow politicos that it wasn't actually his property. "It's just to hint to my wife as to what I do want for my birthday," quipped the congressman, who turned 61 Wednesday. Perhaps it belonged to the chairman of the full House Energy and Commerce Committee, Rep. John Dingell (D-Mich.). (A Markey aide said she wasn't sure.) Dingell--who, at 81, also happens to be the House's most senior, albeit not quite its oldest, member--remarked that he was still BlackBerry-reliant but was also "enjoying my new iPhone." "Is there any reason why, if technical questions can be addressed, that consumers ought not have the ability to determine the devices they're going to have on the network?" he asked. Consumers vs. carriers Most Republicans present said they believed the wireless market is a competition "success story" and thus warrants no additional rules. "When we micromanage, when we regulate, we discourage capital flow," said Rep. John Shimkus (D-Ill.) By contrast, most Democrats and at least one Republican said the FCC may need to take steps during the upcoming 700 MHz auction that they feel would better promote consumer choice. Rep. Chip Pickering (R-Miss.) and Jane Harman (D-Calif.) said they urged the FCC in a recent letter to force the operators of at least some of the soon-to-be-auctioned-off airwaves to allow customers to hook up whatever devices they please and to offer that band at wholesale prices to companies that want to get into the wireless broadband space. Those ideas drew renewed resistance from the two wireless carrier representatives on the panel--Ed Evans, the head of a start-up called Stelera Wireless, and Verizon Wireless general counsel Steven Zipperstein. Both executives said there's nothing wrong with allowing the auction winners to institute open access rules if they please, but they argued that forcing such a business model is inappropriate when there's no evidence of consumer discontent. Of the thousands of phone calls and e-mails that Verizon Wireless's 60 million customers place to the company each day, "we have not heard from our customers very much about the desire to bring other devices onto our network or the desire to enable Wi-Fi," Zipperstein said. Pressured later by Rep. Lois Capps (D-Calif.), Zipperstein denied that Verizon Wireless offers its U.S. customers "fewer" features on their phones than does the European carrier Vodafone, which owns almost half of his firm. "We offer different features," he said. But Jason Devitt, a Silicon Valley entrepreneur who founded the wireless applications start-up Skydeck, argued there's a significant difference in the freedom granted to wireless product developers in the United States vis-a-vis in Europe. He belongs to a coalition that wants the FCC to set aside a chunk of spectrum as an open "sandbox" where innovators could experiment with new wireless technologies without having to secure permission first from carriers. "If I want to produce a GSM device that will work on Vodafone's network, I don't have to ask Vodafone's permission," which he claimed has led to some 800 devices that could work on that network, he told the politicians. By contrast, "if I want to produce a CDMA device that works on Verizon's network, I have to ask Verizon's permission." CNET News.com's Declan McCullagh contributed to this report. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Democrats criticize AT&T's exclusive iPhone deal Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.