https://www.cnet.com/news/when-will-the-iphone-be-released-in-the-uk/
When will the iPhone be released in the UK? - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In When will the iPhone be released in the UK? When will the iPhone be released in the UK? Can I import one from the US? Andrew Lim January 19, 2007 6:47 AM PST I love Apple products and when I heard that Apple is making a mobile phone, I almost jumped out of my seat with joy. The only thing is, I'm not sure when it's coming out in the UK. When will the iPhone be released in the UK? And if it's out in the US sooner than over here, can I import one? Michael Mcfann Hi Michael, I think this question is on many people's minds and if you didn't get a chance to watch Steve Jobs, chief executive and co-founder of Apple, talk during the Macworld keynote, then let me fill you in... There will be two iPhones available in the US, one with 4GB of on-board memory and one with 8GB. The 4GB version will store about 1,000 songs and the 8GB version will, accordingly, store about 2,000 songs. Jobs also announced that the 4GB version will cost $499 (£250) and the 8GB version will cost $599 (£300), in addition to a two year contract. It is still unclear exactly what contract will apply in the UK. Both models are scheduled to be available in the US by June, in Europe by December and in Asia by 2008. If you watch the keynote carefully, however, Jobs only said that it will "hopefully" be available in Europe by the fourth quarter -- so there is a chance that the UK might not get it until 2008 -- but judging by Apple's track record over the past five years, it should be on time. In terms of importing an iPhone, there are a couple of potential problems. You'll have to buy it with a two-year network contract, so even if you're paying £300 for the 8GB version, you also need to pay a monthly tariff for two years. In addition, you will have to have a US postal address in order to get a contract. The other problem is that the iPhone is most likely to be locked to the network operator, in this case Cingular, making it impossible to use another SIM card in it. This means that unless you're prepared to pay the roaming costs of using a US mobile in the UK, you won't be able to use it. There's a small chance that Apple will decide to sell it SIM free and without a contract in the US, but my advice would be to do the hard thing and wait until it comes out in the UK later this year. Details are still thin on the ground as to the UK pricing and contract deal, but we suspect it will be a similar setup to the US. Finally, if you, like most people, decide to wait for it to come out over here, make sure you get to an Apple store the minute it arrives -- stocks will almost certainly run out quickly. Comments Phones Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: When will the iPhone be released in the UK? Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.