https://www.cnet.com/news/ps3-jailbreak-prompts-restraining-order-from-sony/
PS3 jailbreak prompts restraining order from Sony - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In PS3 jailbreak prompts restraining order from Sony Legal action targets hacker "Geohot" and others, alleging they bypassed a PlayStation 3 firmware update after the game company removed the "Other OS" option from its console. Don Reisinger January 12, 2011 7:26 AM PST CNET Sony yesterday filed a restraining order against well-known iPhone hacker George Hotz, known as "Geohot," and other individuals for allegedly bypassing "effective technological protective measures" in PlayStation 3 firmware version 3.55. The recently released jailbreak for firmware version 3.55 allows PlayStation 3 owners to run custom packages on the console. Geohot's ultimate goal is to bring back the "Other OS" option that was removed from the PlayStation 3 last year. Sony's restraining order attempts to stop Geohot from offering the jailbreak. The company claims that the jailbreak violates the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the Computer Fraud Abuse Act. The court filing says that Geohot allegedly "trafficked in circumvention technology, products, services, methods, codes, software tools, [and] devices." Sony is especially concerned that the jailbreak will "enable use or playing of illegal copies of PlayStation 3 video games on the PS3 system." Sony is seeking the impoundment within the next 10 days of all circumvention technology that Hotz and his team employ. It also wants all mention of the circumvention removed from the Web, and has asked the court to force Hotz to ignore calls for help from others attempting to install packages on the console. For his part, Hotz has remained relatively tight-lipped in the face of the legal action. He has changed his home page to include only PDF links to Sony's complaint. Sony's battle with hackers started in earnest last March when the company announced the removal of the "Other OS" option. The company said at the time that its decision to remove the feature, which allowed users to install an operating system--most often Linux--on pre-Slim models of the game console, was rooted in its desire to make it "a more secure system." When Sony's PlayStation 3 Slim launched prior to that announcement, it lacked the ability to run another operating system. As could be expected, those who were running Linux on the console were not too happy with Sony's decision. About a week after Other OS was removed in the update, Hotz released a video, showing a hack that allowed users to run another operating system on the console. But the battle between Sony and hackers was far from over. In August, a hack called PS Jailbreak surfaced, allowing console owners to play games via the PlayStation 3's hard drive or an external drive. Sony successfully halted sales of PS3 Jailbreak in Australia later that month. Sony still finds itself sparring with alleged hackers. With each successive firmware update, the company has included additional security to patch holes that hackers had been exploiting. Firmware version 3.55 included a security patch, as well. Comments Security Culture Gaming Hacking Jailbreak Sony Notification on Notification off Smart Home Close Discuss: PS3 jailbreak prompts restraining order from Sony Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.