https://www.cnet.com/news/verizon-is-still-on-a-roll/
Verizon is still on a roll - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Verizon is still on a roll Verizon Communications saw big first quarter gains thanks in large part to demand for wireless and its Fios fiber service. Marguerite Reardon April 28, 2008 9:53 AM PDT Verizon Communications' hot streak continued during the first quarter of 2008. The company said Monday that first quarter profits jumped about 10 percent to $1.64 billion, fueled by demand for its mobile phone service and fiber-to-the-home service called Fios. Revenues grew about 5.5 percent to $23.8 billion, the company said. About $11.7 billion of that revenue came from its wireless business, an increase of about 13.2 percent from the first quarter of 2007. There's no question that Verizon Wireless, which is jointly owned by Vodafone, has a good reputation as a wireless provider. Its network is considered to be highly reliable, and the company has always done well retaining customers. And now Verizon is getting those customers to use more of its data services, such as picture messaging, text messaging and Internet surfing. In fact, it looks like mobile data is driving growth in the highly profitable wireless business with revenue from data services jumping 48.9 percent from the previous year generating about $2.3 billion in revenue. Verizon reported that its customers sent or received more than 58 billion text messages and 1.1 billion picture/video messages during the quarter. And customers completed 34.6 million music and video downloads. On average, Verizon's wireless customers spent $11.94 a month on data services, an increase of about 33 percent from a year earlier. Mobile data accounted for about 20 percent of all wireless sales for the quarter, but the company hopes it will eventually account for a bigger chunk of the revenue pie in the future. About 58 percent of Verizon's retail customers had broadband capable devices at the end of the first quarter, the company said. Wireless operators, such as Verizon, are counting on consumers to use even more data in the future. That's the reason Verizon spent $9.3 billion on new wireless spectrum licenses in the Federal Communications Commission's recent 700MHz spectrum auction. The company has already said that it plans to use this spectrum to build its 4G wireless broadband network that will deliver even faster data speeds to its customers using a technologycalled LTE. The company is also trying to spur innovation by opening its network to a faster certification process for new devices and applications. The hope is that streamlining the process will allow developers to get products and services that use the Verizon network on the market faster than before offering customers new and cool devices and applications first. But wireless isn't the only shining light for Verizon. The company also saw big growth in its fiber-to-the-home service called Fios. This service, which includes high-speed broadband access, telephony and TV service, competes head-to-head with cable offerings. Verizon said it added 263,000 new TV customers in the first quarter bringing the total number of Fios TV customers to 1.2 million. In terms of broadband, the company said the majority of its new broadband customers were for Fios. The company added 262,000 Fios broadband connections during the quarter for a total of 1.8 million Fios broadband customers. Verizon CFO Doreen Toben Verizon Communications As expected, Verizon continued to see declines in its traditional telephony business, which fell 2.5 percent during the quarter. The company cut about 6,500 workers in 2007 and more job cuts in the traditional telephony business are expected throughout the year, company CFO Doreen Toben said. Verizon's bets on wireless and fiber seem to be paying off. But as the overall U.S. economy softens it will be interesting to see if the company's strong growth will continue. My gut feeling is that Verizon is in good shape. Cell phone, TV, and broadband service are three things that most people won't want to live without even if they are crunched for cash. But the big question is how much more will people be willing to spend on the extras, such as mobile music downloads, mobile TV service or the highest level TV and broadband packages? That's the big question that will likely determine how much growth Verizon will experience in the future. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Verizon is still on a roll Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.