https://www.cnet.com/news/moores-law-to-conk-in-10-15-years-says-moore/
Moore's Law to conk in 10, 15 years, says Moore - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Moore's Law to conk in 10, 15 years, says Moore Author of principle that says the number of transistors on a given chip can be doubled every two years says it won't last. Michael Kanellos September 18, 2007 6:02 PM PDT SAN FRANCISCO--Moore's Law has got time left, but we will hit a wall, said Intel co-founder Gordon Moore. "We have another decade, a decade and a half, before we hit something that is fairly fundamental," he said during a question-and-answer session Tuesday at the Intel Developer Forum taking place here. The problem is that semiconductor manufacturing has become so efficient, and structures inside chips have shrunk so much over the last forty hears, that not much more can be taken out. Intel's 45-nanometer chips, coming out later this year, employ the element hafnium as an insulator. Intel has been making insulating layers out of other materials. Those insulating layers, however, are now about five molecular layers thick. "You can't go beyond one molecular layer and you can't really (practically) go beyond five molecular layers," he said. Gordon Moore speaks Tuesday at the Intel Developer Forum in San Francisco. Stephen Shankland/CNET News.com A few years ago, physicist Stephen Hawking appeared in the Bay Area and said that the electronics industry is bounded by two fundamental constraints: the speed of light and the atomic nature of matter. "We're not far from that," Moore said. Moore's Law states that the number of transistors on a given chip can be doubled every two years. Companies have largely been able to follow this curve by shrinking the size of transistors. Shrinking the size of the transistors makes them cheaper, faster and often more energy-efficient. The projection that Moore's Law will hit a wall in the 2020s actually matches a research report (first reported here) from the early part of the decade at Intel. However, Moore and others have noted that progress in electronics will still occur if researchers come up with 3D chips, where transistors can be piled on top of each other. Moore also made a projection that Moore's Law would slow down and even top out in other speeches. Moore also shared some stories about the starting days of Silicon Valley. William Shockley, the transistor pioneer who was also known to be a tyrannical boss, found Moore while searching for a chemist for his new company. Moore applied to work at another company, but that company opened its files to Shockley. Moore was part of a group of engineers who left Shockley to help found Fairchild Semiconductor. The group was dubbed the Traitorous Eight. "I think Shockley's wife came up with that," he said. Intel also became a pioneer in using cubicles somewhat randomly. At first, they thought of putting in offices, but it made the building look "like a prison block." Then they thought of doing a mix of offices and cubicles, but it looked stupid. So they went with all cubicles. Although retired, Moore still has the largest cubicle at Intel. It holds a large circular table. Intel in many ways lucked out in its early days. When it began in 1968, the company chose to work on semiconductor memory. There were three ways to make memory at the time: bipolar circuits, which Texas Instruments and others were doing; multi-chip assemblies, which had practical problems; and silicon gate memory. Intel went with silicon gate. It was a lucky choice, he admitted. If they had chosen an easier technology, they would have been swamped by established competitors. If harder, Intel would have run out of money. "We had a monopoly for seven years. That really helped us get established," he said. In the future, Moore said he expects big things in natural language processing and biology. A smooth Moore's Law-like curve may not emerge for biology, but the rate of innovation is staggering, he said. He also said that one of the original names for Intel, suggested by co-founder Robert Noyce was Moore-Noyce Electronics. They tried a bunch, but Intel worked. Still, intellectual property issues loomed. The name was owned by a hotel chain in the Midwest. They had to buy it. On a more sobering note, Moore, who has donated millions to save forests and other nature areas around the world, said that humans are definitely taking a toll on the environment. "We are the last generation to have any wild places on earth," he said. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Moore's Law to conk in 10, 15 years, says Moore Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.