https://www.cnet.com/news/best-animal-crossing-new-horizons-tips-from-time-travel-to-money-trees/
11 best tips to help master Animal Crossing: New Horizons on Nintendo Switch - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In 11 best tips to help master Animal Crossing: New Horizons on Nintendo Switch What to plant, who to pay and what not to do in the latest installation of Animal Crossing, New Horizons. David Priest March 27, 2020 2:00 PM PDT Leer en español Tom Nook, Blathers and all the other denizens of your island community celebrate all your major milestones. Here's how to get to those milestones even faster. Screenshot by David Priest/CNET Animal Crossing: New Horizons for the Nintendo Switch just hit its one-week anniversary, and I'm already obsessed with finding the rare fish, bugs and plants that populate the beloved franchise, especially online with friends. In fact, the slow-paced, anxiety-free island life simulator just might be the perfect antidote to the realities of social distancing and quarantine during the coronavirus spread. I've already dug up a few nuggets of wisdom to make the game smoother and more rewarding as you build your life on the island, and I've added more each day as I've explored. If you're unfamiliar with the series, a little direction can help you navigate the game so you're not just collecting everything you see -- there's a little more structure than meets the eye. So here are a few tips and tricks for players of all kinds, whether Animal Crossing is already at home in your Switch or still on your personal horizon. I'll update this post as more tips come along. Now playing: Watch this: Maximize your time in Animal Crossing: New Horizons 3:27 Travel back in time before you move forward Screenshot by David Priest/CNET Time travel is a major theme in Animal Crossing, but a controversial one. Since the game takes place in real time, you actually have to wait a real day for buildings to get built and plants to grow. And Animal Crossing starts slow. So if you suspect you'll want a quicker start, consider setting your Nintendo Switch's clock back seven to 10 days. That way, as you play, you can bump it up a day every few hours to cover some of the early, slower-developing portions of the game more quickly. By setting the clock back before you start rather than zooming forward afterward, you also give yourself the chance to get back on real time. That way you can pretend you never cheated (and you don't have to have a wonky clock forevermore). Don't put off paying your debts Screenshot by David Priest/CNET Tom Nook, the wealthy business-raccoon funding your adventure and constantly persuading you to spend more money than you have, puts you in what feels like deep debt on your first day. It takes a little time to build up Nook Miles -- an achievement-based currency -- early in the game, but work to earn them quickly and pay off that first debt ASAP. The faster you pay back your first loan, the faster Tom will build you a home and, most crucially, give you the extra storage you need for everything you're about to start collecting. Plant plenty of fruit (and even money) Screenshot by David Priest/CNET Fruit trees are a great way to get income early in the game, and once you get a shovel, planting a pear or apple tree is super easy and pays off quickly. Another semi-secret form of income: money trees! Around the island, golden beams occasionally shine up from the ground. Dig them up and you'll find a bag of bells (the island's primary currency). Instead of pocketing the bells and covering the hole, you can plant the bag to grow a money tree. In fact, if you select the bells in your inventory and portion out a bag of 10,000 bells, you can grow a tree that drops bags of 10,000 bells when it grows up. Get a grove of those growing, and you'll be rich in no time. Organize your island While you're settling into island life, you'll start developing a daily routine: exploring, collecting and building. But your routine can be much easier -- and require fewer trips back and forth from your house to store what you find -- if you organize efficiently from the start. The easiest way to do this is by planting your fruit trees in clear cut orchards. You can even label those orchards with custom signs, made using the design app on your Nook Phone, as one reader pointed out in the comments below. Once you organize, harvesting fruit in the mornings will be quick and profitable, and you can spend all the saved time exploring, fishing and collecting shells like you really want. Use a stone ax, not an iron one Screenshot by David Priest/CNET If we've learned anything over the past few millennia, it's that iron cuts down trees better than stone does, right? Well, in Animal Crossing, you might not actually want to cut down your trees: you might just want wood, soft wood or hard wood for crafting. Luckily, the stone ax extracts those types of wood without chopping down the tree. Make and use fish bait Screenshot by David Priest/CNET As you go for long, peaceful walks on the beach, you might notice little jets of water spraying up from the sand. When you see them, get out your shovel and dig! Manilla clams are hiding under the sand, and you can craft them into fish bait. When you're angling for rare fish, you can use that bait to give yourself better odds, luring in more fish in specific spots like mountain streams and at the end of the pier. Catch all the fish and bugs Screenshot by David Priest/CNET The other first thing you should do is catch every animal you see -- which pretty much consists of fish and bugs. Keep your eye on flowers for stinkbugs and mantises, snag butterflies in the groves and shake trees and rocks to find pill bugs and spiders. Here's how my colleague caught the elusive stringfish. As soon as you craft your first bug net and fishing pole, start handing over your collected critters to Tom Nook. Sure, you could sell these creatures to Timmy and Tommy, the island's resident traders, but Tom Nook will send each unique discovery to his friend, Blathers the owl, who lives off-island. Long story short, after enough donations, Blathers the owl will come build a museum on the island and set you on a much larger collection project, opening up the game considerably. Learn to creep Screenshot by David Priest/CNET Catching fish takes a little practice, but I didn't realize I was catching bugs wrong until a few days into the game. Instead of rushing up and swinging the net wildly, you can creep forward by holding down the A button when the net is in hand. This will get you close enough to snatch up a bug before they escape. Always hold a net while you're shaking trees Screenshot by David Priest/CNET During your first day or two on the island, when you're running around shaking trees to get sticks (how else are you going to build that ax?), wasp nests will occasionally fall from the branches. Find yourself on the wrong side of a stinger without medicine and you'll pass out. Once you build the bug net, though, it's a good rule of thumb to always hold it while you're shaking trees. Not only can you catch vengeful wasps, but you can also snag spiders and other creepy crawlers dislodged from their homes overhead. Don't let Gulliver sleep in! A few days into your island adventure, you'll notice a gull washed up and asleep on the beach. If you talk to him, he'll mumble something comical and sink back into his slumber. Don't stop! Keep talking to him until he wakes up, and he'll give you a short quest to complete and a small reward to reap. And no, this won't be the first time Gulliver graces your beaches. Fruit gives you superpowers Screenshot by David Priest/CNET If you eat fruit, you'll notice a counter in the upper lefthand corner of the screen. This indicator shows how many pieces of fruit you've eaten (up to 10), and for each one, you can perform a super feat, such as breaking a stone or digging up a full tree. Digging up trees helps make groves easy picking, and when you visit other islands, it helps transplant new fruit trees without having to wait for them to regrow. All that said, DO NOT BREAK ROCKS! In fact… DO NOT BREAK ROCKS Screenshot by David Priest/CNET Iron, clay and stone are all useful resources early in the game, but they're hard to come by. When you hit a rock with an ax or shovel, it spits out one of these three resources. But you only get a handful. "So," you're thinking, "let me eat some fruit and hit a rock. Then I'll get ALL the resources, right?" WRONG! When you break a rock, you will get a single resource, and you'll have to wait for another rock to spawn elsewhere on the island (which, remember, takes real time days). The two exceptions are if you're trying to make space for another construction, or if you're destroying rocks to get them to spawn closer to your home for easier harvesting. Crafting is king (especially on the go) Crafting tools and items out of the refuse you discover around the island is a huge element early in Animal Crossing: New Horizons, and you'll often want to craft while you're roaming far from home. If you keep a workbench in your inventory at all times, you can just plop it down anywhere and get your craft on without the inconvenient trek back to your tent or house. Once you put these tricks into action, Animal Crossing: New Horizons will truly begin to open up to you. Keep discovering and crafting, keep chatting with your island friends and most of all, keep destressing while you do it. Now you know how to jump start your island getaway in Animal Crossing, check out some other tips for getting the most out of your Nintendo Switch and the seven other games you need to play on the console. The 34 best games on the Nintendo Switch 35 Photos Comments Gaming Video Games Nintendo Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: 11 best tips to help master Animal Crossing: New Horizons on Nintendo Switch Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.