https://www.cnet.com/news/marvel-new-warriors-squirrel-girl-coming-to-freeform-tv/
Marvel's 'New Warriors' is bringing Squirrel Girl to TV - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Marvel's 'New Warriors' is bringing Squirrel Girl to TV The live-action comedy by "Cougar Town" co-creator Kevin Biegel will focus on wannabe superheroes -- including the Marvel fan favorite Squirrel Girl. Bonnie Burton April 6, 2017 3:51 AM PDT We all know the powerful and popular Avengers, but what about the heroes with unimpressive powers and awkward social skills? Meet Marvel's "New Warriors" -- young adult heroes who are just venturing into adulthood with not-so-super powers and a lot to learn. "New Warriors" is Marvel's first live-action comedy. The first of its ten 30-minute episodes will debut in 2018 on Freeform TV. Kevin Biegel -- who is best known for his comedy series "Cougar Town" -- will serve as the series showrunner. More superhero news: You can now watch that bizarre 'Legion' ending online Become an extra in 'Avengers: Infinity War' New 'Wonder Woman' trailer full of weapon-wielding action "Not quite super, not yet heroes, Marvel's 'New Warriors' is about that time in your life when you first enter adulthood and feel like you can do everything and nothing at once -- except in this world, bad guys can be as terrifying as bad dates," according to Marvel.com. The series will focus on six young people "with powers and abilities on the opposite end of the spectrum of the Avengers" -- living and working together. Marvel fan favorite Squirrel Girl will be part of the cast. She's a young girl named Doreen Green who can communicate with squirrels -- a power that's helped her defeat major supervillains including M.O.D.O.K., Terrax and Thanos in the comic books. In the comics, Squirrel Girl is a member of the Great Lakes Avengers. She also ends up being hired as a nanny for Danielle Cage -- the daughter of none other than Marvel superheroes Luke Cage and Jessica Jones. But in this TV series Doreen still seems to be a superhero in the making. "Doreen is confident and has the powers of a squirrel," Marvel.com added. "She's acrobatic, can fight and talk to other squirrels. Her most important trait is that she has faith in people and teaches them to believe in themselves." The cast for the series has yet to be announced. Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech." 12 Marvel movies that never made it (pictures) 12 Photos Comments Culture Marvel The Avengers Notification on Notification off Marvel enterprises Close Discuss: Marvel's 'New Warriors' is bringing Squirrel Girl to TV Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.