https://www.cnet.com/news/best-holiday-gifts-under-250-for-2019/
Best holiday gifts under $250 for 2019 - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best holiday gifts under $250 for 2019 With 10 slam-dunk options in this price range, we've got something great for everyone on your gift list this year. Justin Jaffe December 18, 2019 7:04 AM PST Leer en español The Casper Glow is the best smart nightlight I've ever used. Casper Cyber Monday has come and gone. But there are still plenty of great deals out there. And the $100-to-$250 range just might be the sweet spot when it comes to a gift that will be well-received without annihilating your budget. Here are some of our ideas, the best gifts under $250. Read more: Best holiday gifts under $50 | Best gifts for teenage girls for 2019: Apple AirPods, Fuji Instax and more Nintendo Switch Lite For gamers on the go Sarah Tew/CNET This thing rocks. Kids, adult gamers and frequent flyers (really, any users) will find it perfectly sized for handheld video gaming, with everything they need to access Nintendo's classic, immense and celebrated library of video games. It offers a microSD card slot to expand its storage, and a USB-C port for charging and connecting to wired controller accessories. And it's $100 cheaper to buy than the full-sized Switch. Sure, you can't dock it or detach the controllers (or play video games with friends on a single system) -- but those aren't deal-breakers for most people. Straight up: This is probably the best mobile gaming system on the market to buy, and it's the perfect gift for any gamer. B&H has been offering a consistently low price on the Switch Lite, but we're keeping an eye on all of the best Switch deals here. Read our Switch Lite review. $194 at B&H Photo Read more: Best last-minute gifts for 2019: Gift cards, Netflix, Disney Plus and more Sony WF-1000XM3 Most comfortable noise-canceling earbuds Juan Garzon/CNET Sony's WF-1000XM3 ear buds deliver excellent sound quality, strong battery life and a quick-charging USB-C connection. My colleagues who've tested them tend to get a bit breathless when talking about them, claiming they're hands-down the most comfortable earbuds on the market with great sound and active noise cancellation. These devices make great birthday, holiday or anniversary gifts. Read our Sony WF-1000XM3 review. $228 at Amazon Read more: Best gifts for grandparents in 2019 Keurig K-Duo Plus coffee maker: $200 Space-saving dual coffee maker David Carnoy/CNET Keurig K-Duo Plus is the company's top-end coffee maker. It gives you the option of popping in a K-Cup pod to make a single serving, or multiple cups using ground coffee (a 12-cup thermal carafe is included along with a reusable mesh filter). Aside from its dual-brewing capabilities, its other key feature is its multiposition 60-ounce water reserve that can be positioned to the right, left or along the back of the brewer to optimize counter space. With it positioned on back (as pictured), it's quite compact. And this great gift is currently on sale at Best Buy for $200. $200 at Best Buy Casper Glow (2-pack) For easier sleep Casper There are certainly cheaper smart light options, but the Glow -- a highly portable, rechargeable battery-operated smart lamp that will go great on your wishlist -- is undeniably beautiful, easy to setup and pleasant to use. My family has two of them, and they've become instrumental bedtime tools for all four of us (the adults steal from the kids after they fall asleep). Thanks to the built-in gyroscope you can flip it over to turn it on and off, twist it to dim it up or down or shake it to trigger a low nightlight setting. The lamp produces a very pleasant ambient glow -- hence the name -- which dims gradually over 15 to 60 minutes. You can control the span (in 15-minute intervals) using Casper's streamlined iOS and Android-compatible app. And you can also set the light to come on in the morning -- a reverse nightlight, of sorts -- for a perfect waking scenario that's more peaceful than the sound of any other devices: clock alarm, radio or phone. It's really one of the best gifts ideas when it comes to smart home gadgets. Read our Casper Glow preview. $229 at Casper Garmin 235 For athletes looking for data -- not distraction Sarah Tew/CNET I wore the Garmin Forerunner 235 all summer and it's become one of my favorite gadgets. It's a full-featured fitness tracker that accurately captures all of the details of my workouts, whether I'm running or on my bike. I wear it around the clock, into the shower and while swimming in the ocean, and it tracks my steps and sleep. It has an optical heart-rate sensor and can offer up some pretty complex training data -- including an estimate of my VO2 Max and predicted race times and recovery periods. The battery life is stellar; I charge it about once a week. There's a specific use case for this Garmin watch, and it fits me exactly. I wanted a watch that that was free from the uber-connectedness of an Apple Watch -- I don't need any more distractions. (I also tested the newer and more attractive Garmin 245, which is more refined but costs $315, and cluttered with more traditional smart watch features.) Compatible with both iOS and Android, I think the Garmin 235 is a perfect choice for both casual and hardcore athletes who don't want a smartphone on their wrist. Read our Garmin 235 review. $170 at Amazon CNET editors' 2019 holiday picks 19 Photos Read more: Best gifts for 10-year-old girls in 2019 | Best gifts for 12-year-old boys in 2019: 10-, 11- and 12-year-old gifts for Christmas | Best gifts for teen boys in 2019 Lego Technic 4x4 X-treme Off-Roader For kids who tire too quickly of Legos Lego These Technic Lego sets are expensive -- but, in my experience, worth it. In my house, the kids are always excited about a new Lego set. They spend a few hours building it, life is great and then one of two things happen: they plant their new creation on a side table and never touch it again or jettison it into the colossal Lego morass we store in an oversized cloth bag. Finis. Late-stage capitalism crushes us again. But the Technic sets can have a longer lifespan. Because once you're done building this 958-piece 4x4 truck, you have a remote-control car that you can drive with Lego's intuitive Technic app. That has a bit more lasting power. The company says this set is designed for kids ages 11 and up, but I think that even younger kids will appreciate it -- if they have the support of an adult to help them problem-solve. $250 at Amazon Rumpl NanoLoft Puffy Blanket For the perpetually chilly person Rumpl Offering all of the comfort and warmth of a traditional down sleeping bag, Rumpl's synthetic alternative is hands-down the coziest blanket I've ever used. Stuffed with the company's 100% postconsumer recycled NanoLoft insulation and made with ripstop polyester, it's incredibly lightweight, stylish and a joy to wrap around you. $149 at Rumpl Ecobee Smart Thermostat The best smart thermostat Ecobee Our favorite pick for best smart thermostat, the Ecobee SmartThermostat isn't cheap. But it's got the performance and features to back it up -- especially if you want to talk to Alexa without having to buy an Amazon Echo. Read our Ecobee Smart Thermostat review. $230 at Amazon Helinox Chair One Home A tasteful addition to any campfire or living room Helinox A camping chair that's legitimately stylish enough for the living room. This Helinox chair weighs just over 2 pounds but can accommodate up to 320 pounds (and I know this because my kids often sit on my lap when I'm in it). The aluminum poles are sturdy, lightweight and easy to set up, making it portable enough to bring almost anywhere. and the woven seat, which comes in 12 colors, strikes the right balance of style, comfort and durability. $150 at Helinox Ember mug For the hot coffee afficionado Sarah Tew/CNET A colleague bought the original luxury Ember mug for me and it's become one of my most prized possessions. It's expensive -- and I wouldn't have spent my own money on it -- but it's become an essential, almost sacramental part of my morning coffee ritual. The concept is simple: The porcelain Ember Mug is a thoughtful gift that keeps your coffee the perfect temperature -- technically, 130 degrees, though that's adjustable via the iOS- and Android-compatible app -- for a little more than an hour. Note that Ember recently released a new, bigger and pricier version of the mug to splurge on. My colleague Brian Bennett found that it's marginally better -- but even more overpriced. Fair enough. I just got mine and will be testing it over the next few weeks. Read our take on the Ember Mug. $130 at Amazon Best holiday gifts under $250 for 2019 17 Photos Originally published earlier this month. CNET Holiday Gift Guide 2019 Holiday gift guide 2019: CNET editors' top picks Stocking stuffers: Best tech gifts under $25 Best holiday gifts for under $50 Best holiday gifts under $100 for 2019 Best holiday gifts under $250 for 2019 Best holiday gifts under $500 for 2019 Comments Mobile Gadgets Tablets Gaming Video Games Toys and Tabletop Games Garmin Lego Sony Nintendo Ecobee Notification on Notification off Smart Home Close Discuss: Best holiday gifts under $250 for 2019 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.