https://www.cnet.com/news/the-best-meal-kit-delivery-services-in-2019-blue-apron-home-chef-sun-basket/
The best meal kit delivery services of 2020: Home Chef, Blue Apron, HelloFresh and more - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. The best meal kit delivery services of 2020: Home Chef, Blue Apron, HelloFresh and more These convenient meal kit services deliver weekly menus and preportioned ingredients to enthusiastic but time-poor home cooks. And with shelter-in-place lockdowns, they're more useful than ever. Pamela Vachon March 20, 2020 8:21 AM PDT Leer en español Home Chef Best for big appetites Jump to details See at Home Chef EveryPlate Best for those on a budget Jump to details See at EveryPlate Sun Basket Best for organic lovers Jump to details See at Sun Basket Gobble Best for those committed to actually cooking but who have no time Jump to details See at Gobble Dinnerly Best for simple meal prep Jump to details See at Dinnerly HelloFresh Best for those with designer food allergies Jump to details See at HelloFresh Green Chef Best for those who are following a specific diet plan Jump to details See at Green Chef Freshly Best for those who crave home cooking but don't actually cook Jump to details See at Freshly Show more (3 items) With the prospects of heading to the grocery store growing less attractive by the day, a meal kit service just may be a fitting solution for healthy home-cooked meals during the current COVID-19 crisis. What follows is our pre-virus round-up of meal kit services. We've moved Freshly, Green Chef and HelloFresh to the bottom of the list, only because these services have hit capacity and are no longer taking new orders. But Blue Apron, Sun Basket, Every Plate and Gobble are all currently offering deals for new customers. With the exception of Freshly, Green Chef and HelloFresh the meal kit services listed here are operating at full force and our recommendations are up to date. Looking for the best meal kit delivery service in 2020? It seems like the field of options, for healthy eating and convenience, gets bigger with each passing month. But knowing the differences between all the options will help you make the best possible choices for your home meal kit needs. If you live anywhere where it's even a little bit possible to glimpse the stoops of your neighbors, you've probably noticed cheerful boxes from the likes of Freshly, Home Chef, Sakara Life, Purple Carrot and Gobble making ever more frequent appearances on said stoops over the last several years. The age of the meal kit food delivery service is upon us. It's a type of convenience service that combines the efforts of chefs, nutritionists and personal shoppers, and delivers them into the hands of enthusiastic eaters or willing home kitchen cooks, with weekly menus and delicious, preportioned fresh ingredients for you to easily prepare. The breadth of options available today is just staggering, with everything from gluten-free meals to vegetarian options available and ready to ship. That means that people with special diets don't have to exclude themselves from reading further. It's time to find the best meal kit delivery service. I once met one of the founders of Blue Apron, whose delivery box I'd become familiar with, thanks to the denizens of my apartment building. I mentioned that I thought the service sounded like a cool idea, but inundated him with a litany of reasons why such a thing didn't apply to me: I work in an industry where tasty meals are often provided, I'm rarely home, I'm culinary school-trained and so on. His counterargument was flawless: "Can I send you a free box?" I mean, duh. Despite my protestations, the reasons I enjoyed the meal plan were plenty, and inspired me to continue my subscription with an occasional box of ingredients. Even with culinary school cred, I liked having ingredients I didn't know of or would rarely seek out put directly into my hands. I was especially moved by the concept of getting provided the single rib of celery that a recipe demanded, sparing me the heartache of watching an entire head of celery languish in my produce drawer when left to my own devices. There are now dozens of meal kit delivery programs to choose from, like Sun Basket, Martha & Marley Spoon and Purple Carrot, with niche customizations, ingredients and menus to fit special diets like vegan gluten-free, vegetarian gluten-free, plain old gluten-free, paleo, low-carb, vegetarian pescatarian, keto, a plant-based diet and just about anything else. You'll also often find promotional offers for new customers and convenient features like being able to skip weeks and cancel anytime. With limited or no commitment, if you're a calendar master and an account-management ninja, you can dabble in any or all of these services and choose, week-by-week, which best suits your circumstances. Home Chef Best for big appetites Home Chef Home Chef boasts over 38 meal kits to choose from in any given week, including the all-new grill packs and one-pan dinners. Meal kit examples include Chipotle Chimichurri Mini Pork Meatloaves with Roasted Sweet Potato and Garlic Peppercorn Salmon Scampi with Garlic Cream Gemelli and Broccolini. Plus, you can customize the protein in your meal choices, which makes Home Chef dishes stand out from the pack. For example, with some Home Chef recipes, you can order double the protein without doubling the overall portions. With other Home Chef options, you can choose to order antibiotic-free protein instead of the standard version. Meal kits and ingredients are usually pretty standard in their offering (which is what keeps Home Chef efficient to the masses). One new and unique offering from Home Chef is their oven-ready meals, which come with everything you'll need to make the meal including the cooking tray (no messy kitchen and no dishes). See an example of an oven-ready meal here. Subscription: Starting at $7.99 per serving with additional premium Home Chef recipes offered at market price. See at Home Chef EveryPlate Best for those on a budget At just $4.99 per serving and with an emphasis on delicious, hearty meal options and generous portion sizes, EveryPlate is the best plan for those whose journey into meal kit delivery is based on affordability. It keeps its overhead low by offering eight easy recipes to choose from weekly, which does mostly exclude vegetarians and those on special diets, but the eight available meals are full of variety and flavor otherwise. Get 18 meals for only $3.33 each, free shipping on your first order, plus the ability to skip or cancel anytime. Subscription: Each serving is only $4.99. Each weekly box includes three recipes with either two or four servings apiece. See at EveryPlate Blue Apron Best intro to meal kit delivery Blue Apron Blue Apron is largely accepted to be the granddad of meal kit delivery programs in the US. The eight menu choices available weekly range from simple pastas to delicious international options, with a seafood and vegetarian option always available. Even the simplest recipes might include an unfamiliar component or two, and the website often highlights these ingredients as an educational opportunity. Recipes are tagged with helpful keywords such as "customer favorite," "quick and easy," "great for grilling" and so on. Occasional promotions include a menu from guest celebrity chefs, or recipes that highlight popular travel destinations. An optional wine pairing service is also offered. Subscription: Price per serving ranges from $7.49 to $9.99, with options to prepare two to four recipes per week and two or four servings per recipe. Sun Basket Best for organic lovers Chowhound Healthy and fresh are common favorite meal kit descriptors, but Sun Basket goes a step further. Sun Basket is committed to organic, non-GMO, sustainably and responsibly raised products and ingredients, which it packages in 100 percent recyclable materials to boot. Basically, the box took the trip to the farmer's market for you. Sun Basket's recipes are developed by Justine Kelly, a San Francisco chef known for her work at the James Beard Award-winning Slanted Door restaurant, and for her appearance on Top Chef. All of her easy and delicious meals with organic ingredients are nutritionist-approved (500 to 800 calories per serving), and most meals take only about 30 minutes to prepare, with online Sun Basket tutorials available if you need a little extra guidance. You've got options too -- you'll be able to choose from a selection of six to 18 different organic meal recipes each week, including paleo, vegan meal, vegetarian and gluten free meals, so you'll always get what you want. Sun Basket delivery is available in 36 states, and Sun Basket shipments arrive on Tuesdays and Wednesdays between 8 a.m. and 9 p.m. For three Sun Basket meals each week, you'll pay $74.93 for the two-person plan (or $11.99 per serving) and $143.87 for the four-person plan ($10.99 per serving), with a $5.99 shipping fee either way. Subscription: For three Sun Basket meals each week, you'll pay $74.93 for the two-person plan (or the $11.99 price per serving) and $143.87 for the four-person Sun Basket plan ($10.99 per serving), with a $5.99 shipping fee either way. See at Sun Basket Read more: Best air fryers of 2020: Philips, Cuisinart, Black and Decker and more Gobble Best for those committed to actually cooking but who have no time Brandy Yowell Gobble takes the template from the old guard of meal delivery kits but speeds it up by prechopping and part-cooking many of the components so that all recipes have a prep time of 15 minutes or less. Despite the "fast food" angle, each menu has a sophisticated and worldly vibe. Weekly recipe choices are cleverly categorized into From the Range, From the Ranch, From the Sea and From the Earth options. Subscription: Options range from $11.99 to $13.99 per serving, with options for two to four servings of two or three (or more!) recipes. See at Gobble Read more: The best Instant Pots of 2020 Dinnerly Best for simple meal prep Dinnerly Dinnerly rolls out some pretty exciting-sounding and delicious meals such as summery chicken panzanella and risotto with asparagus and cannellini beans. But with no more than six ingredients per recipe, the damage done to your time and kitchen is minimized. Along with not overwhelming you with myriad ingredients and multiple steps, the price tag for Dinnerly puts it squarely in the budget-friendly category, clocking in with a cost per serving of around $5. Subscription: The options include a Two-Person Box for $30, or a Family Box for $60, each with three recipes for the week. See at Dinnerly Read more: 7 tips for using an air fryer HelloFresh Best for those with designer food allergies HelloFresh Note: Due to an unprecedented increase in demand, HelloFresh cannot currently accept new orders. We'll be sure to update this listing as soon as that changes. HelloFresh helpfully tags each recipe accordingly, whether you are allergic to (or avoiding) dairy, gluten, soy, nuts and so on. Familiarity of ingredients is key, even when applied to dishes from various world cuisines. A Hello Fresh's portion sizes are generous, going with its relatively high cost per serving (up to $10 a person). "dinner to lunch" element is a unique twist that provides the home cook a variation on tonight's dinner to serve as a tasty portable lunch tomorrow. Subscription: Options range from $8.74 to $9.99 per serving, with options for two to four recipes per week and two or four servings per recipe, customizable along Classic, Veggie and Family plans. See at HelloFresh Green Chef Best for those who are following a specific diet plan Green Chef Note: Due to an unprecedented increase in demand, Green Chef cannot currently accept new orders. We'll be sure to update this listing as soon as that changes. We like Green Chef for its versatility in the different specific diet plans available. Green Chef offers paleo, keto, pescatarian, vegan, and vegetarian options as well as gluten-free meals. No matter which diet you're following (for health or personal reasons) you'll be able to find a Green Chef plan that works for you. Because it offers so many different diet plan choices, this also makes Green Chef one of the most versatile meal kit delivery services since you get a plethora of different tasty menu options per week. Subscription: $12.99-$11.99 per serving for a two-person Green Chef subscription at three meals/week; $10.99 per serving for a four-person Green Chef subscription at two meals/week. See at Green Chef Read more: 15 unexpected air fryer recipes you have to try Freshly Best for those who crave home cooking but don't actually cook Freshly Note: Due to an unprecedented increase in demand, Freshly has hit capacity in its kitchens and can't accept new orders. At this time, there is no concrete date for when Freshly will be accepting orders again, but we'll be sure to update this listing as soon as we have more information. A few of these services provide fully cooked prepared meals to your doorstep, and Freshly is a good one if you desire wholesome, tasty comfort foods such as peppercorn steak, penne bolognese or chicken and rice pilaf. Meals are prepared right before delivery and are never frozen. With minimal reheating required by you, it's like having Mom cook dinner for you in your kitchen, without having Mom live with you. (Sorry, Mom.) Subscription: $8.99 to $12.50 per serving, with up to 12 servings per week. Shipping is free. See at Freshly Read more: Find the best wine clubs and subscriptions for your taste Now playing: Watch this: 4 unexpected tricks for a better cookout 2:09 Originally published earlier this year. Read more The best food processors of 2020: Braun, Cuisinart and more compared Best meal prep containers for 2020 The best meal kits tested on Chowhound The best healthy meal kits in 2019 Best meat delivery services Our favorite baby food delivery subscription services The best sausages to order online for holiday hosting The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Health and Wellness Healthy Eating Target Notification on Notification off Ovens Close Discuss: The best meal kit delivery services of 2020: Home Chef, Blue Apron, HelloFresh and more Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.