https://www.cnet.com/news/microsoft-kinect-is-back-as-a-399-iot-device/
Microsoft Kinect is back, as a $399 IoT device - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Microsoft Kinect is back, as a $399 IoT device The Azure Kinect has the sensors of the HoloLens 2, for a fraction of the price. Scott Stein February 24, 2019 9:20 AM PST The Azure Kinect combines depth-sensing cameras with an array of microphones, connecting with Microsoft's cloud. Microsoft At Microsoft's HoloLens 2 unveiling here in Barcelona at MWC 2019, another product made a quiet debut. It's not a headset: It's the Kinect, reborn. The Xbox Kinect, an experimental motion-controlled camera and microphone array for games, died in 2017 and was a precursor to the HoloLens headset. But the Azure Kinect Developer Kit is back alongside the HoloLens 2 as a PC peripheral and developer kit, designed to also connect to the cloud and be used for computer vision-related tasks without a computer. The developer kit can be preordered now for $399 (about £300 or AU$560), a little over a tenth of the cost of the $3,500 HoloLens 2. To Microsoft, they're two parts of the same story. The Azure Kinect was first announced last year at the company's Build conference. Onboard is "the same time-of-flight depth sensor developed for HoloLens 2," according to Microsoft, along with a seven-microphone array for speech recognition. Now playing: Watch this: Microsoft HoloLens 2: A first dive into the future of... 4:54 Healthcare company Ocuvera is apparently already using the Azure Kinect to sense for patient falls in hospitals. It's possible that the Azure Kinect could be used for any spatial-mapping needs or to add computer vision to workspaces, much like the Occipital Structure Core and a growing range of similar solutions. Microsoft's Technical Fellow Alex Kipman, who led development on both the Kinect and HoloLens, shared some thoughts during a recent visit to Microsoft's campus in Redmond, Washington. "We didn't find as much signal in the living room for entertainment with devices like Kinect at the time," says Kipman of the original Xbox Kinect. "But you know, go look today at an Alexa ... what are those things doing? They're recognizing people, they're recognizing speech. They're doing a lot of the things that Kinect was doing in 2010. "We're finding way more signal with Kinect in enterprise workloads," Kipman says of the Azure Kinect. "The workloads people are trying to run in enterprise, they tend to be cloud connected direct. They don't tend to go through a proxy PC. Which is why we then end-of-lifed Kinect for Windows and we now just launched Azure Kinect, which is still tetherable to a PC but also connects directly as an IoT appliance to our cloud." Microsoft's HoloLens 2 pulls us further into an augmented reality 18 Photos Mobile World Congress 2020 See All • reading Microsoft Kinect is back, as a $399 IoT device • Mar 12 I got a peek at what your 5G-enabled AR home office could look like • Feb 27 LG's V60 ThinQ phone sees double in blue and white • Feb 26 Hands-on LG V60 ThinQ: 5G with 8K video and dual-screen • Feb 25 New details on Qualcomm's 5G VR prototypes: Cloud rendering, eye tracking, high-res displays Comments Mobile World Congress 2020 Smart Home Gaming Accessories Computer Accessories Kinect Windows 10 Notification on Notification off Microsoft Close Discuss: Microsoft Kinect is back, as a $399 IoT device Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.