https://www.cnet.com/news/should-you-flip-your-mattress/
You shouldn't flip your mattress -- here's why - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In You shouldn't flip your mattress -- here's why Conventional wisdom goes out the window when it comes to foam mattresses. Sarah Mitroff November 6, 2019 3:18 PM PST Listen - 02:28 Getty Images Long before foam mattresses , flipping your innerspring bed was the norm. By flipping and rotating your mattress, you could extend the life of it and help it wear down evenly over time. That wisdom doesn't really work with today's foam mattresses that come rolled up in a box to your front door. Many of these new mattresses have strategically placed layers of foam on only one side, so that side must always remain up. But what are you supposed to do when your bed starts to sag, or wear down in the spot where you sleep? Keep reading. Flipping an innerspring mattress Most innerspring mattresses have identical padding on both sides. IKEA I'll bet your first "big kid" bed used an innerspring mattress -- they have been the most popular choice of mattress for decades. Because they generally have identical padding and support on both sides of the mattress (with some exceptions), you are supposed to rotate and flip them a few times per year. Doing that ensure the mattress wears evenly on both sides so that you can get more life out of it. Read more: The 10 best pillows in 2019, according to the internet | Find the best mattress in 2019: 11 top brands compared This was a regular practice for me with the two innerspring mattresses I've owned, and I always felt like my bed felt more comfortable and more supportive once I flipped it. But today's innerspring mattresses from some of the top brands -- like Serta, Sealy, Beautyrest and Spring Air -- aren't designed to be flipped. They are constructed of several layers of padding on top of a base of coils, and so they should always stay right-side up. Wait, so why can't I flip a foam mattress? Nectar's mattress has several layers of foam stacked on one side. Nectar Mattresses from Leesa, Purple, Casper, Nectar and more all have layers of padding that start at the top of the mattress and go down. It's not that you can't actually flip these kinds of beds, but you might end up damaging the mattress by doing so. They also won't feel as comfortable if you flip them. In most of these beds, the top layers of foam are soft and less dense to promote airflow and cradle your body. If you flip the mattress, you'll likely be sleeping on a denser layer of foam that could feel warmer when you sleep. Rotate, don't flip Therapedic Most foam mattress companies will tell you to rotate your mattress 180 degrees every 3 to 6 months. That's especially important if you sleep alone and tend to stay to one side of the bed, so that you aren't wearing out on side faster than the other. Also make sure that your foam mattress is on the right kind of foundation -- if you use a box spring or bed frame that's not supportive enough, your mattress can sag -- and you might even damage the foam. Comfort issues One of the most common reasons people flip or rotate their mattresses is when they start to notice that their bed isn't feeling as comfortable as it once was. If, after a few years of using your mattress, you notice the foam has broken down and rotating it doesn't fix any comfort issues you're having, there are a few more things you can try. The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Notification on Notification off Sleep Close Discuss: You shouldn't flip your mattress -- here's why Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.