https://www.cnet.com/news/defensively-shopping-at-amazon-com/
Defensively shopping at amazon.com - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Defensively shopping at amazon.com Defensively shopping at amazon.com. Be sure to log off! Michael Horowitz October 2, 2007 3:33 PM PDT A few days ago, I wrote about my experience using the new Amazon MP3 Download store. Perhaps the most important point I raised was that it was possible to purchase songs without having to enter an Amazon userid/password, let alone a credit card number. I have purchased many things from Amazon over a number of years and this was a first for me. Two days after my posting, fellow computer griper Ed Foster, of Gripe to Ed fame, wrote about the issue of logging off Amazon.com in more detail. See Amazon Makes You Lie to Log Off. Ed's article includes this quote from Amazon, which gets to the heart of the defensive computing aspect: "If the particular system which you are using is being shared with any another user, and if you leave your system with out logging out from your account of Amazon.com, they will be able to view your account information and also will able to place an order from your account." Place an order? Up until a few days ago, I thought that leaving myself logged in to Amazon.com was no big deal, since every purchase required entry of a userid and password. But this quote confirms what I experienced, this is no longer the case, at least not always. To triple check, I purchased another song from Amazon's MP3 Downloads using Internet Explorer (the first time around I had used Firefox). Again, I purchased a song without entering any information at all. This is a shame. I've been a happy Amazon customer and don't appreciate their choosing ease of use over security. This time I ran across another purchasing issue. Using IE6 on Windows XP, the browser issued a warning and initially blocked Amazon from downloading my MP3 file. The warning was a yellow stripe just under the address bar. At the point where the warning is issued, you have already purchased the song, but not downloaded it. Not good. Even in beta, Amazon should have some warning about this. I knew what to do, but I'm a computer nerd. Not everyone knows how to respond to this warning, if they even notice it at all (click on the yellow stripe and allow IE to download the file). Many web sites that download files include up-front instructions and warnings about this IE yellow stripe. But not Amazon. The beta (read "unfinished") status also shows in the song previews which seem to always be the first 20 or 25 seconds of a song. Many of the live performances I checked out started with an instrument tune-up session that had nothing to do with the upcoming song, rendering the preview useless. In the track I downloaded today, the performer asks the audience if they are ready for some rock and roll a minute and 35 seconds into it. The first recognizable note of the song comes at 2:09. Turns out this wasn't the live performance I was looking for. Needless to say, there are no returns. But to end an important note, always log out of Amazon.com. Comments Software Notification on Notification off Security Close Discuss: Defensively shopping at amazon.com Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.