https://www.cnet.com/news/best-coffee-grinder-you-can-buy-for-2020/
The best coffee grinder you can buy right now - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. The best coffee grinder you can buy right now We tested a whole slew of home coffee grinders. Here are our favorites for 2020. Brian Bennett March 26, 2020 7:18 PM PDT The best coffee grinder overall Oxo Brew Conical Burr Grinder Jump to details See at Home Depot The easiest coffee grinder to use Baratza Encore Jump to details $139 at Walmart The best coffee grinder for making espresso Breville Smart Grinder Pro Jump to details $200 at Best Buy When grinding and brewing exceptionally good coffee, the key is to grind your beans right before you brew. And for that, you'll need the best coffee grinder. True coffee connoisseurs and coffee lovers don't settle for any old machine, though. A weak coffee bean grinder will hinder even the best coffee makers. Just how important is the coffee grinder to a good cup of coffee? Cheap grinders or a manual grinder have the tendency to mistreat whole beans, grinding them inconsistently. That leads to uneven coffee extraction, and ultimately, a bad cup of coffee or espresso. Avoid this scenario by getting the best coffee grinder that delivers the goods, cup by cup. I've chosen my three favorites below, followed by a list of the other electric grinders that I've put through their paces. The ultimate coffee grinding machines delivers a consistent grind (be it fine or coarse depending on the grind setting), useful grinding features and settings, powerful motors to grind, easy to clean and easy to use. Yes, this buyer's guide list starts at $99, by no means cheap, but that's because I tested all of these coffee grinders personally, and just didn't like the results from the budget set. (See the testing details below, along with their pros and cons and a full list of other models that didn't make the cut.) I'll follow up to see if any other bargain grinding machine is worth the trade-off in the future and update the story accordingly. Also, be sure to read our guide to the best home espresso machines for sale right now. The best coffee grinder overall Oxo Brew Conical Burr Grinder Tyler Lizenby/CNET If you're a coffee drinker who needs a solid, all-purpose (relatively) inexpensive coffee grinding machine, I recommend the $100 Oxo Brew Conical Burr Grinder as the best coffee grinder overall. In terms of grind consistency, the Oxo Conical Burr Coffee Grinder placed second within my test group. That's behind the $199 Breville Smart Grinder Pro, which ranked first in grinding but also costs twice as much. The Oxo Brew Conical Burr Grinder, however, can grind beans faster. And while it has fewer coarse grind settings, Oxo's stainless steel machine is more versatile. The Oxo burr coffee grinder can grind fine enough to be used as an espresso grinder in a pinch. The stainless steel Oxo coffee grinding machine can also produce coffee grounds coarse enough for brewing a cup of siphon, French press and cold brew. Other pros are that the Oxo Brew is easy to clean and creates less of a mess when grinding than other grinders. $100 might sound like a lot, but keep in mind a quality coffee and espresso grinder should grind for a long time. See at Home Depot The easiest coffee grinder to use Baratza Encore Tyler Lizenby/CNET You can't get much simpler than Baratza's $139 Encore. The Encore has just one control: a switch that turns the grinder on and off. That's not just easy -- that's easy easy. Continually pressing a button on the Encore's front activates the grind, too. Grounds from the machine were relatively consistent in particle size. The machine is also simple to clean and less noisy when grinding than many other coffee grinders we've tested. Read our Baratza Encore review. $139 at Walmart Read more: Trusty reusable coffee cups to keep your coffee hot and wallet full The best coffee grinder for making espresso Breville Smart Grinder Pro Tyler Lizenby/CNET If you want a cup of espresso, here's an espresso maker to look at. You'll pay a little more for grinding with the $200 brushed stainless steel Smart Grinder Pro. But if you've got your heart set on pulling espresso shots at home, the Smart Grinder Pro is the best coffee grinder for espresso, cup after cup. This Smart Grinder with stainless steel burrs can produce extremely fine coffee grounds, the sort necessary for brewing quality espresso or Turkish coffee. The machine also created the most consistently sized grounds of all the machines I tested. The Breville boasts 60 settings, and it comes with adapters for espresso machine portafilters. If you like brewing siphon, French press or cold brew though, consider looking elsewhere. Even at its most coarse, this coffee bean grinder's grounds are too fine for those methods. Read our Breville Smart Grinder Pro review. $200 at Best Buy $200 at QVC So, how exactly do we test coffee grinders? An ideal coffee grinder produces ground particles that are of a consistent and correct size. By that, we mean that the size of ground coffee particles should match its grinder's coarseness setting, fine or not. The size of grounds produced should also be fit for the intended brewing method, as outlined within the product manual. To test each grinder for our coffee grinder reviews, we first hand-wash and dry all parts recommended by the manufacturer. We then set each machine to the appropriate level for grinding drip coffee or automatic coffee brewers (again, as indicated by the manual). Sometimes the manual lacks specific directions. In this case, we select the middle coarse setting for grinding, then bump it up by one more coarse level (from fine grind to coarse grind). For example, if a grinder has 16 total coarse settings (assuming 16 is its most coarse grinding option and 1 is fine), we'll set it for coarse level 9. Now playing: Watch this: Five things to know before buying a coffee grinder 1:59 Next we weigh out 10 grams of whole coffee beans to grind. By default our test beans are Kirkland Colombian roast (from Costco). It's the same beans we use for our coffee maker tests. (No judgments, please.) When you grind as much coffee and espresso as we do, it pays to be frugal. Then we run our sample beans through the grinder. We also make note of how long the grinder takes to grind coffee beans. Next, we carefully collect the grounds, then sift them with a two-screen sieve for 60 seconds. For that we use the Kruve Sifter Two. It comes with two mesh screens of different aperture sizes (800 and 400 microns). This step lets us measure the grind consistency of our sample. Read more: High-end drip coffee makers for brewing right at home Enlarge Image We used a Kruve coffee sieve system to confirm grind size consistency. Brian Bennett/CNET A superior electric coffee grinder will produce grounds, preferably with stainless steel blades, that are mostly between 400 and 800 microns in particle size (at our chosen grind setting). Finally, we weigh the grounds that collect between the two screens (800 microns top, 400 microns bottom). A bad grinder will grind particles of varying sizes, from large to small. Blade grinders are notorious for this issue. Typically a coffee grinder with steel or ceramic burrs yield grounds that are much more uniform in size. Oxo's coffee grinder weighs grounds for extra precision 8 Photos Additionally, we grind at least two more times. From there, we can record an average optimal yield for each grinder. Want more? Whether you prefer a cup of espresso, coffee or Turkish coffee, here's a list of coffee grinders I've put through their paces for this evaluation, in addition to the ones above. And below that, you'll find a chart that displays their grinding pros and cons and how well they stack up against each other. Now enjoy a cup! Baratza Encore Krups GX5000 Cuisinart Supreme Grind Automatic Burr Mill Oxo Conical Burr Coffee Grinder with Integrated Scale Oxo Brew Conical Burr Coffee Grinder Capresso Infinity Burr Grinder Breville Smart Grinder Pro Bodum Bistro Coffee Grinder Coffee grinders compared Baratza Encore Bodum Bistro coffee grinder Breville Smart Grinder Pro Capresso Infinity Conical Burr grinder Cuisinart Supreme Grind Automatic Burr Mill Krups GX5000 Mr. Coffee Electric 12-cup coffee grinder Oxo Brew Conical Burr coffee grinder Average optimal yield (grams) 2.6 3.9 6.5 2.9 1.8 1.9 1.8 3.2 Percent optimal yield 26.3% 38.7% 64.7% 28.7% 18.0% 19.0% 18.3% 32.3% Average grind time (seconds) 26 9 10 10 33 19 12 7 Price $139 $90 $192 $99 $36 $49 $19 $99 Originally published last year. More coffee coverage How to make the best cold-brew coffee The best cold-brew coffee makers of 2020 Coffee products you never knew you needed Best travel coffee mugs for 2020 The best coffee subscriptions to try in 2020 Comments CNET Smart Home Smart Home Breville Cuisinart Notification on Notification off Coffee makers Close Discuss: The best coffee grinder you can buy right now Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.