https://www.cnet.com/news/logitechs-new-alexa-skill-sounds-like-living-room-nirvana/
Couch potato paradise from Logitech's new Alexa skill - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Couch potato paradise from Logitech's new Alexa skill Leaning forward to pick up your Logitech Harmony remote is a tiresome, cumbersome chore that will soon be a thing of the past. Ry Crist October 25, 2016 12:01 AM PDT "Imagine a remote control capable of switching channels on your television right from its spot on the table, one that requires no clumsy fumbling about with the hands to operate. That bold, inactive future is here." That's a fake quote from a fake Sony executive in a fake news story published in The Onion almost 20 years ago. The headline? "New remote control can be operated by remote." Today, Logitech and Amazon think they can do one better. Their solution: a new Amazon Alexa voice skill for the Logitech Harmony universal remote control. Enable it on your Alexa device, and you'll essentially be able to ask the virtual voice assistant to operate your smart remote, and do things like turn on the TV, change the channel, dim the lights or even do everything all at once. Some example commands include: Enlarge Image Buttons. Who needs 'em? Sarah Tew/CNET "Alexa, turn on the TV" "Alexa, turn on Netflix" "Alexa, turn on my evening activity" That last one is an example of a command that can trigger multiple things to happen at once. Just set the activity up in Logitech's interface, and Alexa will be able to trigger it when asked. The skill works with all Alexa-enabled devices, including the Amazon Echo smart speaker, the Amazon Echo Dot mini-speaker and the battery-powered Amazon Tap speaker. One caveat, though: It only works if you're using a Logitech Harmony remote that comes paired with the Logitech Harmony Hub, such as the Logitech Harmony Elite or Logitech Harmony Companion. The new skill will be available this week in the US, and it should be arriving in the UK within the coming months, per Logitech. "This new capability is both practical and fun for our users," said Renee Niemi, general manager of the smart home business at Logitech. "We've been working closely with Amazon to deliver robust voice control of your smart home using a Harmony hub-based remote and an Alexa-enabled device -- and if you don't have Harmony yet, just say 'Alexa, order a Harmony Hub' and have one delivered." In other words...that bold, inactive future is here. CNET Smart Home See All • reading Couch potato paradise from Logitech's new Alexa skill • Mar 27 Here's the best Wi-Fi range extender for almost everybody • Mar 27 The best coffee grinder you can buy right now • Mar 26 9 online cooking classes to keep you full and fulfilled • Mar 26 Ode to the $5 pot scraper Comments CNET Smart Home TV Accessories Smart Home Notification on Notification off Logitech Close Discuss: Couch potato paradise from Logitech's new Alexa skill Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.