https://www.cnet.com/news/logitech-harmony-express-builds-in-alexa-to-simplify-tv-systems-for-250/
Logitech Harmony Express builds in Alexa to simplify TV systems for $250 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Logitech Harmony Express builds in Alexa to simplify TV systems for $250 My family and I spent the last week talking (and listening) to the latest Harmony universal clicker. Here's what we learned. David Katzmaier April 16, 2019 12:01 AM PDT The $250 Harmony Express replaces most buttons with Alexa, complete with the blue light ring. Sarah Tew/CNET For 15 years Logitech Harmony universal remotes have tamed sprawling multidevice home entertainment systems, making them simpler to use. They replace a coffee table full of remotes with just a single clicker that commands your TV, AV receiver, cable box, game console and more, seamlessly. One button press turns everything on, switches to the correct inputs and you're ready to go. With the new Harmony Express, that button-press becomes a voice command: "Turn on the TV." The Harmony Express has been completely redesigned from previous models like the Harmony Companion and Harmony Elite to make things even simpler, starting with built-in Alexa. My family and I, including two elementary-school-age kids, have been using it for the last week to control the main entertainment center at home. It's already everyone's favorite clicker, mainly thanks to Ms. Alexa herself. (Note CNET may get a share of revenue from the sale of the products featured on this page.) See it at Amazon Now playing: Watch this: Harmony Express universal remote gets simpler with Alexa... 2:03 Here are the basics. The Harmony Express costs $250 and is available now at Amazon and Harmony.com and coming soon to other retailers like Best Buy. There's just 10 buttons and a four-way directional pad. The buttons are backlit and the D-pad has a colored ring just like an Alexa speaker. You press the main top button and speak into the remote to issue commands. Voice is powered by Amazon Alexa, but you don't have to say "Alexa," just the command itself like, "Turn off the TV" or, "Launch Netflix." A built-in speaker lets Alexa talk back even when your system is turned off. Words like, "Getting Netflix from Harmony Express" issue from the remote in her familiar voice. You can pair the Express with any Alexa speaker for hands-free commands. For example, "Alexa, turn on the TV" works hands-free, no remote required. The remote finder function, a first for Harmony, causes the remote to play a tone, allowing you to find it if it's lost among the couch cushions for example. It includes a small hub and IR blaster, just like current Harmony remotes, that controls gear via Infrared, Bluetooth and IP/Wi-Fi commands. The remote doesn't need line-of-sight to your devices so you don't have to aim it or even be in the same room, and gear can be stashed inside cabinets. A redesigned app for iOS and Android, called Harmony Express, makes the setup process easier than previous Harmony apps. It can control up to 15 AV devices and, just like any other Alexa device, control smart home devices like lamps, thermostats and more with voice commands. New simpler Harmony remote has Alexa press-to-talk built-in 36 Photos It's a miniature handheld Alexa speaker, you guys The craziest thing about the Express is that it has not only a mic built-in, but also a speaker. It talks back with Alexa's dulcet tones just like an Echo. My kids love Alexa, and one of the first things they did with the Express was test its limits as a speaker. Their favorite "Sing a song" worked, causing Alexa to spout her own little ditties, and "What is your anus?" evoked the familiar "Uranus is the seventh planet from the sun." They even got it to play music from iHeart Radio, although the sound was terrible through the Express' tiny speaker. I asked for the weather, set a timer and, more useful in a remote, turned off the lights in the TV room and turned on the bias light behind the TV. I asked when the next Mets game was on and, "Who are the stars of Stranger Things?" Having Alexa in a device in my hand already was really convenient and a great alternative to raising my voice to reach the Echo in my dining room. You push the button to talk into the remote, no "Alexa" wake word required. Sarah Tew/CNET Voice > buttons The Express does away with the numeric keypad, the four color-coded buttons, smart home buttons and other Harmony staples. Instead there's that huge central push-to-talk Alexa button. Past Harmony remotes have had buttons that correspond to so-called Activities like "Watch TV" and "Play Xbox." Pressing one turns on the TV, switches the input to device and maps all the buttons like Menu, Exit and the directional keypad on the device itself. To watch TV or Hulu or play Xbox on the Express you'll have to talk into the remote. Issuing that command does all the same stuff as before. It's simpler in one way -- no need to figure out which activity button to press -- but also arguably more of a pain to speak rather than mash a button. You also have to speak (e.g., "Turn off the TV") to shut everything down since there's no off button anymore. The main use for a numeric keypad is inputting channel numbers, but Express does that via voice, too. Just say "Go to ESPN" or "Go to Net Geo" and it dials up that channel from your cable or satellite box directly -- no need to remember the channel number. Sorry cord cutters: It only works with cable and satellite boxes, not live TV streaming apps like Sling TV and YouTube TV. At least for now. The remote comes with a small hub (left) and an IR extender to control your gear. Sarah Tew/CNET In fact there's only nine keys -- all backlit -- below the big voice/select button and circular four-way D-pad, and three (volume up/down and mute) are devoted to controlling your audio device. That leaves just six for the actual device you're controlling, by default Back, Home, Menu and Rewind, Play/Pause and Fast Forward. You can map any of those to any command using the app, and program each with long and short presses, but people who like dedicated keys for additional functions, like DVR, Guide or Record for example, may be annoyed at the paucity of keys. There's also no way to create custom voice commands. Seriously, who needs buttons? Just like switching channels, launching apps is faster with voice. "Watch Netflix" with everything off fired up the TV, switched inputs correctly and bright me right to my profile page in a couple of seconds. I also loved that you can map different apps to different streaming devices. I had a Roku, an Apple TV and a Fire TV hooked up and I was able to choose which one I wanted to associate with each app. Some devices are excluded, however -- associating an app with my Xbox or Nvidia Shield wasn't an option, for example. The remote finder function within the new Harmony Express app is gold. Sarah Tew/CNET You get access to deeper voice integrations on Fire TV. I was able to say, "Find Comedies" or, "Find movies with Julia Roberts" or, "Watch Roma" and the Fire TV served up exactly what I expected, even within the Netflix app. Unfortunately these kinds of deep links won't work with other streamers like Apple TV and Roku (yet). Logitech's reps also said the Express wouldn't be made compatible with Google Assistant or other voice systems in the future. And if you have other "helper" apps installed the Express can get, well, confused. Alexa video skills for Dish, Xbox, Roku and others can interfere with the Harmony Express Alexa skill (required to use the remote), causing you to have to specify the device ("...on Express") or disable the skill entirely. For example, when I said, "Switch to Fire TV" Alexa replied, "I can do that on your Harmony Express. Which would you like?" I had to answer, "Harmony Express" before it switched over. The more helper skills you have installed, the greater the potential for confusion (both yours and Alexa's). Otherwise my voice commands were executed flawlessly. The most common, including turning on and off and switching my various devices, happened much more quickly than the Fire TV Cube. Response times to key presses with devices and apps were similarly very quick. The remote is small and light and feels just right. Sarah Tew/CNET Easy on the eyes and in the hand The Express is quite small, but doesn't feel cheap or toylike. It looks sleek on a coffee table and there's a pleasing symmetry. Unlike with an Apple TV remote, it was always easy to tell which end is "up" thinks to the big button and light ring. The attractive matte finish repelled even my kids' grubby fingerprints well. The rounded sides and bottom felt natural in my hand. I really liked the fact that every button was an easy thumb reach away, and my thumb rested naturally on the play/pause button, which is concave for tactile reference. After a couple days use I rarely had to look at it to identify buttons. When I did, the clear icons and full backlighting served well. The remote charges via Mini-USB and battery life is excellent. In a solid week worth of use, including plenty of songs from the kids, it went down to about halfway according to the battery indicator in the app. Setup with my system was as simple as any remote I've used, and much clearer than past Harmony devices. Yes, I had to provide exact model numbers and know which inputs I had connected -- not necessary with the Caavo -- but the steps made sense and I didn't hit any snags. I especially liked the suggestions telling me which phrases I could use. I did miss the ability to use the app to control devices directly. Unlike the standard Harmony app, the Express app is strictly for setup, help and finding the remote. And speaking of help, the Harmony Help skill for Alexa (automatically enabled during setup) walked me through troubleshooting when something unexpected happened. When the TV didn't turn on at one point, for example, a series of Alexa prompts fixed the issue quickly. A universal remote is only worthwhile if you have a lot of gear to control. Sarah Tew/CNET The $250 question Do you need the Harmony Express? I would argue that for a system with an AV receiver, a TV and two or more connected devices, a universal remote is a necessity. But if you have a simpler system, say a smart TV, a game console and a sound bar, it's probably overkill. If you decide you need a universal remote, there are a couple that will work just as well as the Express for less. The Harmony Companion, my current CNET Editors' Choice, is less than half the price and can do pretty much everything the Express can, aside from built-in voice. It also works well with Harmony's Alexa app, so you can do a lot of stuff with an Echo speaker, no remote required. Then there's Caavo Control Center, which costs $100 and requires a $2 monthly service fee. It has Caavo's own voice system built-in, which lets you search across services and perform other functions, and overlays everything with an onscreen interface. We used it for a couple months in my house, before installing the Express and liked it a lot, although the onscreen stuff often felt unnecessary and I prefer the feel of the Express. I also like its backlit keys better than Caavo's capacitive onscreen indicators. The Fire TV Cube is another cheaper universal remote option, but it requires you to hold onto your original remotes since Amazon's included clicker is very basic. And for pretty much the same price as the Express you can get the Harmony Elite, which has a screen, making some functions like direct app and channel access easier. But not as easy as asking Alexa. None of those universal clickers is as intuitive to use as the Harmony Express, however. If you have a complex AV system and like the idea of simplifying it as much as possible with a combination of voice and buttons, it could be worth the steep price. Comments TVs TV Accessories Alexa Amazon Bluetooth Logitech Nvidia Roku Apple Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Logitech Harmony Express builds in Alexa to simplify TV systems for $250 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.