https://www.cnet.com/news/best-av-receivers-of-2020/
Best AV receivers of 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best AV receivers of 2020 We compared affordable, full-featured AV receivers from Denon, Onkyo, Sony and Yamaha. Which one wins? Ty Pendlebury February 29, 2020 8:47 PM PST Best receiver of 2020 Onkyo TX-NR696 Jump to details $529 at Walmart Best for music fans Denon AVR-S750H Jump to details $399 at Walmart Best for beginners Sony STR-DN1080 Jump to details $598 at Walmart Wireless rear speaker option Yamaha RX-V485 Jump to details $400 at Walmart Want to find the best AV receiver for the money? I've recently tested some of the most popular big black box options from the major brands, and the feature sets and performance levels are impressively high in this middling price range. From Dolby Atmos to Wi-Fi music streaming to voice control -- and, of course, high-quality audio -- these models have everything a home theater enthusiast needs. Now playing: Watch this: How to buy an affordable AV receiver 2:33 Which receiver comes out on top? Of the current receiver models I've reviewed, the Onkyo TX-NR696 is my favorite. The receiver offers easy setup, excellent usability, great surround sound with plenty of headroom, solid looks and, most important, plenty of up-to-date features essential to a stereo receiver. The Onkyo retails for more than $500, but it's regularly on sale for under that. Even at $580 the TX-NR696 is a great deal. The Sony STR-DN1080 also puts in a good show despite being from 2017, as does the 2019 Denon AVR-S750, which offers even more refined performance than the Sony and Onkyo. I rated all three as "excellent," with just a little daylight separating their overall CNET ratings. They're all great performers and, as prices fluctuate regularly, if you can find one that's significantly less expensive than the others, go for it. Read more: Sound bar vs. speakers: Which TV audio system sounds best in 2020? Best receiver of 2020 Onkyo TX-NR696 Sarah Tew/CNET The Onkyo TX-NR696 is the best budget-ish receiver released in 2019 with a wealth of connectivity that supports multiple audio formats with a big, bold sound. It isn't the direct replacement to my favorite receiver of 2018, the TX-NR585, but this step-up model offers a number of improvements, including a bump in power (80W to 100W) and a front-mounted HDMI cable port (in addition to the six HDMI inputs on the back). This receiver offers streaming protocols, including Google Chromecast built-in, DTS Play-Fi, Spotify Connect, AirPlay and Bluetooth. The only thing we didn't like was the remote control (it was just a bit too much). If you can find the TX-NR696 under $500, that's great, but it's still worth the extra coin. Read our Onkyo TX-NR696 review. $529 at Walmart $580 at Crutchfield $530 at Best Buy Read more: Best soundbars for 2020 Best for music fans Denon AVR-S750H Sarah Tew/CNET The 2019 AVR-S750H replaces the excellent S740H, and while it's been tweaked a little, it appears to be essentially the same receiver. It has everything you need, including voice control compatible via both Amazon Alexa and Google speakers, Atmos and AirPlay 2. It has an on-screen setup assistant that helps you connect your TV and optimize surround sound -- whether it's for an immersive audio experience your home theatre or flipping from channel to channel on your living room couch. Read the Denon AVR-S750H review. $399 at Walmart $399 at Crutchfield $399 at Abt Electronics Read more: Best streaming device of 2020: Roku, Apple TV, Fire Stick, Chromecast and more Best for beginners Sony STR-DN1080 Sarah Tew/CNET The Sony STR-DN1080 was our 2017 Editors' Choice, and it's still an excellent stereo receiver package, if getting long in the tooth. Sound quality is not quite as strong as those of the Denon and Onkyo, but they're all very close. If you want a receiver that offers ease of use and integrates both AirPlay (but not AirPlay 2) and Google Chromecast built-in wireless streaming, this is a great option. It even uses virtual speaker relocation technology optimize sound to the room where you setup. Don't pay full price, though -- it regularly goes on sale for between $400 and $500. Read our Sony STR-DN1080 review. $598 at Walmart $598 at Crutchfield $598 at Abt Electronics Read more: Best Wi-Fi speakers and music systems of 2020 Also consider Wireless rear speaker option Yamaha RX-V485 Sarah Tew/CNET The Yamaha RX-V485 offers quality sound at an affordable price, as well as Wi-Fi connectivity, Airplay 2, Spotify Connect, Bluetooth and other music casting from your devices. It also has 4K Ultra HD with HDR10. For most people, though, it's worth paying more for extra HDMI inputs and outputs and Dolby Atmos capability, available in all of the models above. Read our Yamaha RX-V485 review. $400 at Walmart $400 at Crutchfield $450 at Abt Electronics What to look for in a $500-ish receiver AV receivers are notoriously complex, with reams of features and confusing technical specifications. I'm going to sum up the most important ones right here. 4K HDR compatibility You want to make sure your new receiver can keep up with the latest TVs and video gear. Standards do change all the time, but the bare minimum right now is support for HDR and Dolby Vision (at least HDMI version 2.0 or better). All of these models support 4K and HDR video. Read more: The best smart speakers of 2020 The rear panel of the Onkyo TX-NR585 offers six HDMI inputs Sarah Tew/CNET At least four HDMI inputs With most televisions and set-top boxes supporting HDMI, you should buy a receiver that has as many of these inputs and outputs as possible. Front-mounted HDMI ports are kind of like appendices -- unneeded, because most users don't do hot-plugging of HDMI devices -- making the number of rear inputs what's most important (how else are you going to connect your blu-ray player, Nintendo Switch, sound bar and all your other devices. The Yamaha has the least at four, while the Sony and Onkyo have the most, at six. The Sony also offers a second HDMI-out for Zone 2. You should also be sure you have an extra HDMI cable or two on-hand. Read more: Best universal remotes of 2020 You don't really need Dolby Atmos 'height' speakers The Yamaha is the only model here that doesn't support Dolby Atmos and DTS:X, but the effects they have on your home theater movie watching can be subtle, or in most movies: nonexistent. In other words, don't worry about missing out on these new formats if you don't install the extra speakers. Mounting rear wireless surround speakers high on the wall instead will get you half of the way in terms of quality immersive sound. Wi-Fi music streaming Most midrange receivers have onboard Wi-Fi network connectivity for wireless music streaming. There are plenty of standards for wireless streaming services, but the most universal are Apple AirPlay and Google Chromecast (and sometimes Spotify Connect) built in . If you're looking to build a multiroom system with a variety of AV systems and speakers with wireless connectivity, these are the two flavors to aim for. The Onkyo and Sony are the only two that support both. The Denon models lack wireless streaming via Chromecast but up the ante to AirPlay 2. For more on what you should be looking for, check out my full AV receiver buying guide. Read more: Best sound bars under $300 Originally published last year and updated periodically. Comments AV Receivers Yamaha Amazon HDMI Google Sony Apple Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Best AV receivers of 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.