https://www.cnet.com/news/five-web-sites-for-businesses-to-create-passbook-passes/
Five Web sites for businesses to create Passbook passes - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Five Web sites for businesses to create Passbook passes Small businesses and consumers alike need a way to create custom Passbook passes. Here are five sites that make it possible. Jason Cipriani October 16, 2012 3:11 PM PDT Jason Cipriani/CNET Whether you're a small business or an individual who wants to create a pass for Passbook, unless you have a lot of technical knowledge, it's not going to be an easy journey. There are a lot of moving parts that come together to create a pass for Passbook. Certificates, the actual coding of the pass, signing it, distributing and tracking it are just a few of those parts. Instead of investing countless hours and money into developing a pass, it may be easier to use a service to streamline the process and prevent any headaches you would likely face. If you go down this road, it's a good idea to sign up for an iOS Apple developer account. The cost is $99 per year, and some of the services require that you import your own Passbook certificates. Here are five sites that will help you test out Passbook and see if it's a fit for your business, or your personal use. PassKit Screenshot by Jason Cipriani/CNET PassKit provides users with easy-to-navigate templates that allow its users to customize each pass and truly make it their own. During the creation process, the pass template will update in real time, showing you what you can expect to see when the pass is added to Passbook. After you've created the pass, you can limit how many people can install it, when it expires, and if a password is required before allowing access. Once you have issued a pass, you can go back and edit it (update it with a new promotion) and then send push alerts to everyone who has the pass installed. You're even able to view how many passes are currently installed. PassKit Account Plans will begin on October 22. Any passes created before then are free, but after that date, pricing starts at free and goes up from there using a monthly subscription model. PassHound Screenshot by Jason Cipriani/CNET PassHound allows you to create passes using the common templates, or by using templates created and shared by fellow PassHound members. You can create and share your own templates, or keep them private to be used for your own business. Push alerts and tracking passes are all included in the service. Right now, anyone who signs up can use the service for free until December. After that, you'll need to sign up for a paid plan ranging from $5.99 to $35.99 per month. PassSource Screenshot by Jason Cipriani/CNET PassSource offers two different services. The first, under the Get heading, is a list of apps with Passbook integration, or links to business Web sites explaining planned Passbook integration. It's a convenient resource if you're looking for Passbook apps and services. The second, under Create, allows you to create passes using blank templates, or predefined templates for companies -- regardless if they've rolled out Passbook support (Starbucks is still listed on PassSource, even though the official app now supports it). Ranging from a YMCA member card to your IKEA Family card, you can fill out the required information for each pass type, and download it to your iOS device in just a few minutes. If you're looking to create a custom pass, including custom artwork, you can sign up for a personal or professional account. Each account type offers its own benefits. A personal account will set you back $9 a month or $99 per year. A professional account runs $99 a month or $999 per year. There is a promotion running right now set to end when when the site "officially launches." For small businesses, PassSource also offers a Pass Scanning app in the App Store that will help you track loyalty cards and coupon redemption. PassTools Screenshot by Jason Cipriani/CNET PassTools template builder is one of the best I have seen yet. It's easy to navigate and use, not to mention it just looks nice. When you first sign up there will be five sample passes populated in your account for you edit and test with. You can easily create your own passes, complete with custom artwork by clicking on the New Pass button. When you sign up you'll receive a 30-day free trial, after which you'll need to pick a price plan. Plans start at $99 per month for basic users (1,000 passes per month) and goes up to $999 per month for premium users (10,000 passes a month). The template editor is nice, but the service is lacking one key feature -- push alerts. As far as I can tell from testing the service, any pass updates you make will only be reflected in the pass once the user redownloads the pass. PassDock Screenshot by Jason Cipriani/CNET Similar to PassSource, PassDock has a list of popular companies it has created Passbook templates for. You can personalize any template and add it to your Passbook in just a few minutes. The template editor is well thought-out, offering both a Simple mode and an Advanced mode. Simple is easier for the less tech-savvy people, while advanced offers more control over the pass. If you'd rather create a pass from scratch, you can do that as well. Currently the service is free to use, with no limits being placed on number of passes, updates, or alerts. The site is in beta, with a pricing model expected to be released as it leaves beta. Conclusion Sign up and take advantage of free trial offers and free plans. Experiment with passes and how they can be used before you commit to what could be a costly subscription fee. In the end, a Passbook coupon for your business may not be ideal, but there's only one way to find out. I've created a few passes using each of the services listed above for random things. One pass I have lists a reward and phone number to call should I lose my phone. Crooks are getting smarter and deactivating Find My iPhone, but they can't turn off push alerts I send through Passbook without deleting the pass or wiping my phone. It's a random use of Passbook, and one I hope I never have to use. What are some creative uses you can think of for Passbook that may not stick to the obvious path? Comments Culture Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: Five Web sites for businesses to create Passbook passes Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.