https://www.cnet.com/news/5-ways-to-share-files-with-your-team-while-working-from-home/
5 ways to share files with your team while working from home - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. 5 ways to share files with your team while working from home An absolute beginner's introduction to file-sharing services. Rae Hodge March 18, 2020 4:00 AM PDT Google Drive Jump to details See at Google OneDrive Jump to details See at Microsoft Dropbox Jump to details See at Dropbox IDrive Jump to details See at IDrive MediaFire Jump to details See at MediaFire Getty Working from home for the first time is challenging in even the best circumstances, but if the transition has been a sudden one for you thanks to the coronavirus pandemic, it may be doubly so. One of the first obstacles you're likely to run into is how to send and receive files too large to attach to an email. Luckily, what was once a complicated ordeal is now quick and easy. Here are some the easiest file sharing starter services to work with, especially if you're a beginner. Read more: Best services for working, eating and entertaining yourself at home Google Drive Google If your company uses a version of Gmail for its corporate email system, you may have seen Google Drive, or already have access to it. Even if it's not part of your company's existing online environment, Google Drive is likely the easiest bet compatible with the most systems to get your work in the right hands. Signing up for a free Google Drive account gets you 15GB of storage. If you think you'll need more storage than that, you can pay $30 per year to get 200 GB of space. If you're considering storage needs for your home-based business, a Drive Enterprise account will only cost $8 per month per user, and it comes with unlimited storage. Business plans also come with 24/7 phone and email support. You can use Google Drive across Windows, Mac, Android and iOS. The flexible, compatible nature of Google Drive is its strongest feature. By downloading the Google Drive client for your desktop, you can have your MacOS or Windows machine automatically sync your files to Google Drive, ensuring that your work is always backed up. Google Drive's search bar also makes online document organization less cumbersome. Any photo, document, folder or individual file can be shared with other Gmail users, who can work with you inside of your documents in real time. See at Google OneDrive Microsoft If your company uses Microsoft Outlook, you may already have access to OneDrive, Microsoft's answer to Google Drive. Just like Google Docs, the OneDrive file management system offers real-time document collaboration and mobile apps for both Android and iPhone. If you're looking to keep costs down, you can get a free OneDrive account with 5GB of storage. Paid plans for individual users start at $2 per month for 100GB of storage. Office 365 Personal customers can get 1TB of storage for $70 per year, while Office 365 Home customers can get 6TB for $100 per year, spread across six users. Along with 24/7 phone support, OneDrive's best perk for paid plans is its ransomware detection and recovery features. See at Microsoft Dropbox Dropbox Dropbox has become one of the best-known and most reliable file-sharing apps worldwide. Its desktop client runs in the background and can be set to sync your files automatically. Dropbox also offers a slate of third-party app integrations, making it ideal for whose work requires exchanging files across multiple companies using different file management systems. Signing up for a free account with Dropbox gets you 2GB of storage, compared to Google Drive's offer of 15GB free. But Dropbox is compatible with most Google Drive and Microsoft Office files, making it a more practical option if you need more flexibility in the types of files you can share. For $10 a month, you can get a personal box that can store 100GB. If you're going the home business route, Dropbox Business costs the same amount but comes with a whopping 2TB of storage. Dropbox's best perk? Business plans come with a layer of encryption and offer 120 days of file recovery. Not bad. See at Dropbox IDrive IDrive IDrive might be the easiest file-sharing client to set up. It also comes with many of the same features as the above services, including an automatic syncing option for your desktop and mobile, bulk uploading options for multiple files, and a search feature to quickly find a file. To top it off, IDrive offers solid encryption, data restoration, a full suite of desktop clients and mobile apps for both Android and iPhone. The trade-off? It's a little pricey. While its free plan offers 5GB, its personal paid plans start at $70 per month for 2TB of storage. To get 5TB, it'll cost you $100 per month. The two-year 2TB plan costs $140 and the two-year 5TB plan costs $200. Currently, IDrive is offering some tempting discounts, though. For a limited time, you can get one year and 2TB for $52. Business-level plans (allowing unlimited user accounts) range from $100 for one year and 250GB all the way up to $1,000 for 1.25TB for two years. See at IDrive MediaFire Screenshot by Rick Broida/CNET As budgets tighten in the wake of market uncertainty, an economy option might be worth considering for your file transfer needs. MediaFire isn't as popular as the above options, but it's one of the least expensive and easiest-to-use file management systems currently available. Free accounts get 10GB of storage. Paid plans start at less than $4/month for 1TB of storage, with the ability to automatically virus-scan and download entire folders at once, upload from any website and dodge ads. Business plans run $40 per month, allowing up to 100 users and a massive 100TB of storage. The trade-off for the price cut and virus scan is a slightly slower upload speed, and the limited platform options. Though it offers no desktop clients, it has apps for both Android and iPhone. See at MediaFire For more, check out seven free videoconferencing apps: FaceTime, Skype, Zoom and more compared. Comments CNET Apps Today Internet Services Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: 5 ways to share files with your team while working from home Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.