https://www.cnet.com/news/the-new-console-war-pricing/
The new console war: pricing - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In The new console war: pricing Leading up to the Electronic Entertainment Expo, most companies try to release information that will either (1) become a springboard for the show or (2) become lost in the heavy news traffic -- by design. With Sony's announcement of a $100 price cut, it Don Reisinger July 10, 2007 12:24 PM PDT Leading up to the Electronic Entertainment Expo, most companies try to release information that will either (1) become a springboard for the show or (2) become lost in the heavy news traffic -- by design. With Sony's announcement of a $100 price cut, it has effectively achieved the former. And while some brushed my opinion aside claiming I was biased or a Nintendo-hater when I told them Sony and Microsoft would take the day, it seems that opinion may not be so far off after all. Sony Playstation 3 Sony Although I still believe the Xbox 360 will take the lead in this generation, the Playstation 3 will make it difficult for any console to run away with the prize. But cutting the price $100, the company has increased Amazon sales by 3200% and created the buying frenzy Sony has hoped for all along. By seeing these new sales figures, I have to wonder if Nintendo is wishing it had more third-party support and if Microsoft is wishing it had room in the budget to drop prices sooner than it wanted to. Simply put, the real console war has begun. And unlike previous generations where first-party games became the reason to buy a console, the new battleground is on the shelves where consumers will choose only one system to buy and the decision will be made by their wallets. Microsoft must drop Xbox 360 prices right now. In order to stay ahead of the game, executives in Redmond better consider the implications of offering a product that is now more expensive than a Playstation 3 if the consumer purchases the most comparable setup: an Xbox 360 Elite with an HD DVD add-on. What is the impetus to buy an Xbox 360 anymore? Before this price cut, Microsoft was winning on price, losing on specs and waiting for the right time to drop the price on its own console. Did the company not expect Sony to do the same? Xbox 360 Microsoft Playstation 3 sales are not up today because of great games or its Blu-ray player. Sales are skyrocketing because this is the moment most gamers have been waiting for: an affordable Playstation 3. Even better for Sony, Madden is right around the corner and if history repeats itself this year, Playstation versions will sell better than any other system. People know the controller on the Playstation 3 (it's basically the same as the PS2) and have played the game on a Sony console for years. Now that it's affordable and Madden will be here next month, what's stopping them from running down to Best Buy and picking one up? The dynamics of this hardware generation are completely different from previous eras. Years ago, detailed hardware specs meant nothing to people when it came to gaming. When I was a kid, I would go to school and talk about the 16- or 32-bit systems I was playing at home. Gaming was gaming and that was all that mattered. This generation is entirely different. The days of debating bits have given way to significant cost implications as video gaming becomes more mainstream. But in the end, will this cost battle even matter? Retail chains are flooded with Xbox 360s sitting right next to a comparably priced Playstation 3 and a sold out Wii sign. For the first time, the Wii is not the most sought-after video game console. Right now, people are speeding their way to Gamestop just to have a PS3 when their favorite games come out. Whether you want to admit it or not, the Playstation 3 will play a significant role in this industry. Nintendo Wii Nintendo Sure, the Wii shortages will end soon and the Xbox 360 will continue to sell at an average clip, but it's the Playstation 3 we should all be watching. The PS3 is no longer the expensive Xbox 360 -- it's the product of choice. Because of this, Microsoft should drop the Xbox 360 price by $100 at E3 to keep the pricing advantage and in the process, promote all of the fine third-party support the console currently receives and will receive in the future. Nintendo, on the other hand, should be worried. While the Wii is a fine machine that offers a unique gameplay experience, those traits alone will not carry the day. Once the Wii becomes widely available, the price needs to be slashed -- the product is over-priced. Not only will this usher in a new wave of purchasing, it will help Nintendo maintain the "good guy, doing it for the gamers" image. The video game industry has become one of the largest and most lucrative industries in our marketplace. But with this success, it has moved to a more financial focus. And while each console manufacturer begrudgingly loses money on each console it sells, it's a necessary evil. Armed with that knowledge, Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo are poised to enter a pricing battle that will only benefit consumers. But if Microsoft and Nintendo don't watch the amazing sales jump for the Playstation 3 and follow suit, it may be a long year for both organizations. Comments Culture Notification on Notification off Smart Home Close Discuss: The new console war: pricing Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.