https://www.cnet.com/news/tsmc-to-be-amds-new-best-friend/
TSMC to be AMD's new best friend? - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In TSMC to be AMD's new best friend? The foundry says it's got a big customer coming on board next year, and AMD's making sounds like it wants a new friend with a manufacturing plant. Tom Krazit July 27, 2007 11:41 AM PDT While AMD isn't giving away any information on its future fab plans, a major chip foundry is gearing up for a big new customer. TSMC, the largest chip foundry in the world, is apparently planning to take on a new customer that wants to use the high-k dielectrics and metal gates introduced earlier this year by both Intel and IBM. Sumner Lemon of IDG News Service sat through a TSMC earnings call in which company executives mentioned a mysterious new customer would be coming on board in the second half of 2008. There are not a lot of folks planning to use that technology at 45-nanometers in 2008. Intel is, but it's got its own manufacturing facilities. IBM is, but it also grows iits own in New York. Sun and TI are, but they've got plans to build their chips at TI's facility in Texas. Then comes AMD, which is planning to use metal gates in the future and has been thinking about relying more on foundries. Novel technologies like metal gates--which are actually the first changes to the basic materials in a transistor since the 1960s--generally enter production on processors that are gunning for every last bit of performance. If performance isn't as much of an issue, it makes more sense to wait until the kinks are ironed out. Companies like Intel, IBM, and AMD are generally the ones pushing the envelope on both performance and new transistor technology, so it's pretty likely that TSMC's customer is someone like that. AMD's losing a lot of money these days, and rumors have been flying that the company wants to outsource more production to foundries. TSMC already makes graphics chips for AMD. Both companies use the letter "M" in their names. Seems like a done deal. But yesterday, AMD said it hadn't decided whether to use the metal gates on the second iteration of its 45-nanometer chips, or the first generation of its 32-nanometer chips. AMD's first 45-nanometer chips are scheduled to come out in the middle of 2008. If in fact that decision hasn't been made, then TSMC is probably looking at another customer in 2008, since AMD's 32-nanometer designs won't be ready until 2009 at the earliest. All of this speculation comes because AMD hasn't said exactly what it wants to do to obtain future chip-making capacity. It has danced around something called "asset-light," but hasn't really explained what that will mean in the future. Comments Culture Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: TSMC to be AMD's new best friend? Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.