https://www.cnet.com/news/e3-2007-rock-band-we-rocked-so-hard-we-blew-the-lights/
E3 2007: 'Rock Band' (we rocked so hard, we blew the lights) - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In E3 2007: 'Rock Band' (we rocked so hard, we blew the lights) We test EA's answer to 'Guitar Hero,' 'Rock Band' (we rocked so hard, we blew the lights). Dan Ackerman July 12, 2007 2:39 PM PDT The always smiling Steven van Zandt joins EA's music advisory panel. One of the most buzzed-about games of E3 this year is Rock Band, EA's answer to Activision's popular Guitar Hero franchise. Instead of playing along to onscreen songs with one or two plastic guitar-shaped controllers as in Guitar Hero, Rock Band adds a drum kit and microphone to the mix, letting up to four rockers do their thing at one time. The guitars are similar to the plastic Guitar Hero axes you're familiar with, and the mic is a standard plastic number you might find on a cheap karaoke machine. The drum kit is clearly the main focus here--it's got four pressure-sensitive pads, plus a foot pedal for hitting an imaginary bass drum. It all plugs into a small USB-style hub, which in turn plugs in into the console (at least on the Xbox 360 version we played). Rock Band's drum kit. The match-the-beat gameplay is virtually identical to Guitar Hero, but adding the drums and vocals, while it may make for a crowded living room, creates an entirely new dynamic. If your living room is too small, you can play online, taking on the drums, for example, while your friends play the other parts from wherever they are. But being in a band, even a fake one, is all about playing off each other, so playing online seems like it would be less fun by a wide margin. The songs we saw were in the same general Guitar Hero vein, but EA's introduction of Steven van Zandt (of E Street Band and Sopranos fame) as the head of a music advisory board for picking songs at least made it seem like they were taking the music seriously. Preparing to rock so hard, the power would go out. But all this is moot if the game doesn't play well. To give Rock Band a test drive, we went over to a small private suite that had been set up to demo the equipment. With a few other journalists, we gave the setup a test drive. On David Bowie's "Suffragette City," I took on the vocals, and naturally, totally rocked, while the rest of the band struggled to keep up behind me--the drums in particular seems like they would take a while to get used to. Then our fab foursome hit its stride with Weezer's "Say It Ain't So." As the song's final notes rang out, there was an audible pop and the lights went out. That's right, we had rocked so hard, we blew a fuse. Microsoft's Peter Moore plays onstage at the Troubadour. Actually, the lights were out in that entire row of rooms, and later, we learned, in random patches all along the next several blocks. Fire engines were soon blocking the street, and according to Wired, a transformer had blown under another hotel, causing a partial blackout. That's what putting thousands of Xbox 360s, plasma TVs, and power-hungry computers in a small stretch of beachfront property will do. Later that evening, the rocking continued at the legendary Troubadour club in West Hollywood, where Microsoft VP Peter Moore took to the stage to play some virtual rock in a repeat performance of his press conference shindig from earlier in the week. Roadies then cleared the faux instruments and set up for the evening's legit entertainment, high-volume sets from the appropriately rocking Eagles of Death Metal and Queens of the Stone Age. Comments Crave Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: E3 2007: 'Rock Band' (we rocked so hard, we blew the lights) Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.