https://www.cnet.com/news/this-is-the-best-free-password-manager/
This is the best free password manager - CNET Esto tambi칠n se puede leer en espa침ol. Leer en espa침ol Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Espa침ol China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. This is the best free password manager LastPass eliminates any possible excuse you could have for not using a password manager. Rick Broida March 2, 2020 11:52 AM PST Leer en espa침ol Listen - 03:38 The free version of LastPass is as capable as the paid version of many other password managers. LastPass I won't shut up about password managers. They're among the most helpful (and important) tools a person can use, yet I know countless people who just keep writing down, forgetting and resetting the same few easily hacked credentials. If that's you, it's time to get with the program -- or in this case the app. Concerned about expense? Don't be: Many great password managers have capable free versions. But there's one I think stands above most others (including those in our roundup of the best password managers), because it has one key capability most others charge for. It's called LastPass. See it at LastPass More on passwords Strong passwords: 9 rules to help you make and remember your login credentials New Year's resolution: Protect your credentials with the Google Chrome password manager This is how we might finally replace passwords A password manager is an encrypted database of all your passwords. Instead of trying to remember that same handful of (probably not very secure) passwords you use everywhere you go online, you just have to remember one: the one that unlocks LastPass. Why this over the likes of 1Password, Dashlane, Keeper, Password Vault, Sticky Password and other products, all of which are perfectly good? Simple: The free version of LastPass supports password synchronization. That means you can access your data on your phone, tablet and PC -- a benefit that's absolutely essential if you use more than one device. Beyond that, it offers common helpers like strong-password generation, automatic form-filling, encrypted credit card storage (for easier online shopping), a digital vault, password sharing (with family members and trusted friends) and so on. Read more: The best free password managers and how to use them Incredibly useful features like those help explain why I prefer LastPass (or any password manager, really) to the rudimentary password-management capabilities built into Android, iOS and your web browser. Indeed, I think once you get accustomed to having those tools at your disposal, you'll wonder how you managed so long without them. Make no mistake, there's a learning curve to LastPass, starting with the process of importing any existing passwords you might have. What's more, if you're an iOS user, you'll find that while LastPass can autofill existing passwords into your apps, iOS doesn't allow it to automatically capture new ones -- meaning you'll have to manually add them as you sign up for new sites and services. LastPass Premium and other freebie options That small hassle is greatly overshadowed by the overall convenience of the app. Your goal as an internet citizen should be to use a different, robust password for each app, site and service, and a password manager is the only practical way to make that happen. You should be using one. And LastPass is, to my thinking, the best free option out there. Should you bother with the Premium version, which costs $36 a year? (It was originally $12 and then jumped to $24; now it's triple the price.) I'd argue that the handful of additional features you get -- including one-to-many password sharing, priority tech support and 1GB of encrypted storage -- are superfluous for most users. The one exception is emergency access, which lets you set up your account so a spouse or family member can access your passwords in case of crisis. For the record, LogMeOnce is another robust password manager that also supports password-syncing in its free version. I don't like it as much, but it's definitely worth a look. Meanwhile, lots of users have pointed out Bitwarden, a hugely popular open-source utility that does syncing as well. It's available for every platform and device. What's your preferred password-management method these days? And if you refuse to use a utility like LastPass, I'd like to know why! 游땦 Now playing: Watch this: This free password manager offers one crucial feature 1:16 Originally published last year. Updated with new information. CNET's Cheapskate scours the web for great deals on tech products and much more. For the latest deals and updates, follow the Cheapskate on Facebook and Twitter. Find more great buys on the CNET Deals page and check out our CNET Coupons page for the latest promo codes from Best Buy, Walmart, Amazon and more. Questions about the Cheapskate blog? Find the answers on our FAQ page. Comments The Cheapskate CNET Apps Today Mobile Security Notification on Notification off Deals Close Discuss: This is the best free password manager Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Espa침ol MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow 춸 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.