https://www.cnet.com/news/more-than-100000-iphone-owners-break-out-of-jail/
More than 100,000 iPhone owners break out of jail - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In More than 100,000 iPhone owners break out of jail The release of an easy-to-install method of getting third-party applications onto the iPhone prompted about 144,000 downloads of the software in three days. Tom Krazit October 31, 2007 5:41 PM PDT The release of an easy-to-download method of opening up the iPhone to third-party applications prompted almost 150,000 downloads of the software in three days. The iPhone of an anonymous CNET employee now has a few third-party applications, thanks for the AppSnapp installer. Corinne Schulze/CNET Networks Our friends over at iPhone Atlas spoke with Nicholas "Drudge" Penree, one of the programmers of the AppSnapp "jailbreak" application, who provided the number. AppSnapp was released Sunday to allow iPhones and iPod Touches running the latest version of Apple's iPhone firmware to run third-party applications. Penree thinks the 144,000 downloads of the program reported since Sunday translates into around 100,000 devices that are now free to run applications developed outside of Apple. Apple and hackers have been playing a cat-and-mouse game over the screen real estate on the iPhone almost since the day it was released. Apple CEO Steve Jobs initially told developers that the iPhone would be closed to native application development, saying that Web applications would be the initial venue onto the iPhone. That didn't sit well with many developers who were captivated by the promise of the iPhone's touchscreen interface and built-in accelerometer. Hackers then managed to develop several methods of getting outside applications onto the iPhone only to be thwarted by Apple's OS X 1.1.1 software update. That erased all third-party applications from the iPhone, and caused all kinds of problems for people who had used the jailbreaking software to download applications in order to unlock their iPhones from AT&T's network. Apple is clearly worried about unlocked iPhones. Chief operating officer Tim Cook offered an unsolicited estimate last week that 250,000 iPhones have been purchased with the intention of unlocking them, and the company recently enacted a credit-card only policy and a two-iPhone limit for sales through its stores with the goal of discouraging unauthorized resale. But Apple knows just how much demand there is for third-party application on both the iPhone and the iPod Touch. Earlier this month, Jobs announced plans to release a software developer's kit for both devices by February of next year. That SDK will pave the way for safer and more reliable iPhone and iPod Touch applications. Some security experts are worried about the security implications of the fact that all iPhone applications run as root, while others feel it's a question of priorities at the moment. Still, the only way to get applications to run on the iPhone or iPod Touch is to take advantage of a security flaw (which the AppSnapp folks did take the time to patch for everybody), and that's far from ideal. As always, only install things on your iPhone or iPod Touch that are coming from sources you trust. Comments Culture Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: More than 100,000 iPhone owners break out of jail Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.