https://www.cnet.com/news/apple-closes-store-in-italy-restricts-employee-travel-amid-coronavirus-outbreak/
Apple closes store in Italy, restricts employee travel amid coronavirus outbreak - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Apple closes store in Italy, restricts employee travel amid coronavirus outbreak More precautions are being taken as the virus spreads globally. Oscar Gonzalez March 4, 2020 7:10 AM PST Listen - 01:19 This is an Apple Store when it's closed. Apple For the most up-to-date news and information about the coronavirus pandemic, visit the WHO website. As the coronavirus continues to spread globally, with a spike of cases in Italy and South Korea, Apple is taking steps to protect employees from coming into contact with the virus. A memo sent to Apple employees says travel to South Korea, Italy and China is restricted unless deemed "business-critical" and approved by a company vice president, according to a report from Bloomberg on Tuesday. Those who have travel plans to those countries are reportedly being advised to postpone or cancel trips and conduct business via phone or video instead. Apple will also reportedly close one of its stores in Italy this weekend. The Apple Store in the Oriocenter shopping mall, near the Il Caravaggio International Airport in the northern part of the country, will be closed, as reported by AppleInsider on Tuesday. The store closure comes from a government order by the Council of Ministers to shutter retail stores of a certain size in certain provinces to stop the spread of the virus. A Twitter user posted on Feb. 25 that multiple stores across Italy were closed this past weekend of Feb. 29. CNET Coronavirus Update Get all the latest on the coronavirus that's now been declared a pandemic. Coronavirus updates FDA warns at-home coronavirus tests are unauthorized and fraudulent Zoom has been a chaotic beacon of light during the coronavirus lockdown FBI says beware of stimulus-package scams Snowden says government surveillance amid COVID-19 could be long lasting At the end of January, Apple closed stores in China due to the coronavirus outbreak and reopened them with limited hours later in February. South Korea and Italy are two of the countries with the highest number of cases of COVID-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, following China, where the outbreak began. Apple didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. Now playing: Watch this: AirPods Pro after 3 months: Worth it? 8:56 The best Apple iPad apps of all time 25 Photos Comments Mobile Travel Coronavirus Notification on Notification off Apple Close Discuss: Apple closes store in Italy, restricts employee travel amid coronavirus outbreak Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.