https://www.cnet.com/news/best-coffee-makers-in-2019-bonavita-ninja-oxo-moccamaster/
Best coffee maker for 2020: Bonavita, Ninja, Oxo, Moccamaster and more - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best coffee maker for 2020: Bonavita, Ninja, Oxo, Moccamaster and more Here are the best coffee makers you can buy to make delicious drip at home. Brian Bennett March 14, 2020 2:30 PM PDT The best all-round coffee maker Bonavita Connoisseur Jump to details $140 at Amazon The best for strong single cups Bonavita Immersion Dripper Jump to details $45 at Amazon The best for speedy pots Bunn Velocity Brew BT Jump to details $149 at Walmart The best for showmanship KitchenAid Siphon Brewer Jump to details $199 at Walmart The best for versatility Ninja Hot and Cold Brewed System Jump to details $230 at Best Buy The best for cold brew Oxo Cold Brew Coffee Maker Jump to details $49 at Amazon The best value Oxo Good Grips Pour-Over Jump to details $15 at Amazon The best looking Ratio Eight Jump to details $495 at Ratio Coffee The best for traditionalists Techivorm Moccamaster KBT 741 Jump to details $309 at Amazon Show more (4 items) Few drip coffee makers have what it takes to brew drip coffee at its best. Drip coffee makers are supposed to be dead simple: fill with give them grounds, top with hot water and then let time and gravity work its magic. Even though this sounds easy, it's actually not because most drip coffee makers don't get water hot enough or brew too slowly, which makes them fail miserably at the basic task of the drip. Others tend to overcompensate, and end up scalding their coffee grounds completely. Luckily, there are noteworthy exceptions, and whether you prefer to brew perfect lattes, iced coffee or a cup of freshly ground coffee, you don't need to spend a mint to get the best coffee maker. You can drop over $600 on a tricked-out Ratio Eight that's as beautiful as it is capable or on a programmable commercial coffee maker. But all it takes is $15 to get Oxo's superb Single Serve Pour Over funnel. And there are plenty of compelling choices in-between for your brew. One is our Editors' Choice winner, the Bonavita Connoisseur, our pick for best all-around automatic brewer. Another is the KitchenAid Siphon Brewer, which uses an ancient technique to achieve outstanding and dramatic results. No matter your budget, there's something on this list that'll fit your drip needs perfectly and be the best coffee maker for you -- and we'll periodically update it with new products as we test them. We promise, you'll never have to drink coffee from pods again. The best all-round coffee maker Bonavita Connoisseur Chris Monroe/CNET Despite its snobby name, the Connoisseur from Bonavita is the best coffee maker for automatic drip coffee you can buy for the least amount of cash. It reliably brews full pots of great coffee that rival what you would get from your favorite coffee shop or barista, and it's a cinch to use. With easy, one-touch operation, the Bonavita has a 1,500-watt heating element that maintains optimal brewing temperature of 198-205 degrees fahrenheit. This perfect coffee maker also has a 1.3-liter water reservoir, works fast, and has all the bells and whistles including a stainless steel-lined thermal carafe. It's also a snap to keep clean, with a removable, dishwasher-safe filter basket and carafe lid. Read our Bonavita BV 1900TS review. $140 at Amazon The best for strong single cups Bonavita Immersion Dripper Tyler Lizenby/CNET If you find that brewing an entire pot of coffee each morning is overkill, then consider the Bonavita Immersion Dripper. This small gadget is the best coffee maker to brew perfect single cups of strong, flavorful Joe that can be enjoyed hot or cooled for iced coffee. You just have to supply the hot water and coffee filters. Read our Bonavita Immersion Dripper review. $45 at Amazon The best for speedy pots Bunn Velocity Brew BT Those who seek lots of coffee in a hurry will love the quick brew cycle of this drip machine. The Bunn Velocity Brew BT drip coffee maker with its stainless steel-lined thermal carafe whips up large pots of joe at astonishing speed. In as little as 3 minutes, 33 seconds, the coffee maker can deliver full batches of tasty drip to drink. Read our Bunn Velocity Brew BT review. $149 at Walmart $124 at HSN The best for showmanship KitchenAid Siphon Brewer Tyler Lizenby/CNET It's hard to beat the KitchenAid Siphon Brewer's unique combination of spectacle and quality. The coffee it makes is distinctly rich, deep and seductively flavorful. Its vintage brewing method, based on vapor pressure and vacuum suction, is also mesmerizing to watch. No paper filters needed as the Siphon Brewer comes with a reusable stainless steel filter. Read our Kitchenaid Siphon Coffee Brewer review. $199 at Walmart The best for versatility Ninja Hot and Cold Brewed System Chris Monroe/CNET Think of this kitchen appliance as the Swiss army knife of the drip coffee maker world. The Ninja programmable brewer (with frother, thermal carafe and reusable filter) offers an uncanny degree of flexibility. It can create everything from solid drip, to perfect cold brew, to iced coffee, to latte-style drinks with its milk frother, and it will adjust the temperature according to your choice. Its thermal carafe will keep tea or coffee hot up to two hours. This programmable coffee maker even lets you brew iced coffee and hot coffee in multiple sizes, from small cups, mugs, travel mugs, all the way up to half and full carafes. Read our Ninja Hot and Cold Brewed System review. $230 at Best Buy The best for cold brew Oxo Cold Brew Coffee Maker Chris Monroe/CNET Cold brew coffee is delicious, but it can be a pain to make. Oxo's cold brew contraption takes much of the headache out of the process. It saturates coffee grounds evenly, and lets you drain cold brewed coffee from them with relative ease. Read our Oxo Cold Brew Coffee Maker review. $49 at Amazon The best value Oxo Good Grips Pour-Over Tyler Lizenby/CNET Great tasting drip from a product that costs just $15? It sounds unlikely but that's just what the affordable Oxo Good Grips Pour-Over offers. It only makes coffee one drink at a time, and requires you to provide the hot water. That said, the simple brewer transforms the otherwise complex task of pour-over into one that's easy, clean and almost foolproof. Read our Oxo Good Grips Pour-Over Coffee Maker review. $15 at Amazon The best looking Ratio Eight Tyler Lizenby/CNET Judging by the Ratio Eight appliance, the people at Ratio believe coffee makers should be beautiful as well as functional. Starting at $495, each brewer is crafted from a selection of premium materials like walnut, mahogany and glass. (Both the water reservoir and carafe are made from hand-blown glass.) Their sturdy aluminum bases are available in numerous finishes as well. And yes, the Ratio Eight also makes excellent drip. Read our Ratio Eight review. $495 at Ratio Coffee The best for traditionalists Techivorm Moccamaster KBT 741 Megan Wollerton/CNET Dutch company Technivorm has sold exceptionally good drip coffee makers for decades. Its Moccamaster KBT 741 sports a design with clean lines and sharp angles that harkens back to 1968, the year the first Moccamaster hit stores. Retro design aside, the Moccamaster KBT 741 consistently puts out perfect freshly brewed coffee that will satisfy coffee connoisseurs. It's stainless steel thermal carafe also keeps its contents hot a full six hours. Read our Technivorm Moccamaster KBT 741 review. $309 at Amazon A note on testing coffee makers Evaluating the performance of a coffee maker is trickier than it might sound. The first step is to know what good drip coffee actually is. According to the Specialty Coffee Association, there are criteria critical to brewing quality java. Mainly these are brewing time and water temperature. Hot water should come into contact with grounds for no less than four minutes and no longer than eight. Additionally, the ideal water temperature range is between 197 degrees Fahrenheit (92C) and 205 degrees Fahrenheit (96C). To confirm how each coffee maker meets that challenge, we log the length of their brew cycles. We also employ thermocouple heat sensors connected to industrial-grade data loggers. That enables us to record the temperature within the coffee grounds while brewing is underway. Enlarge Image We measure the temperature inside the brewing chamber of every coffee maker we test. Brian Bennett/CNET After brewing coffee, we take sample readings of the produced coffee liquid with an optical refractometer. Given we factor in the amount of water and freshly ground coffee used, that data lets us calculate the Total Dissolved Solids percentage of each brew. From there we arrive at the extraction percentage. The ideal range is commonly thought to be between 18 and 20%. We also back up measured data with a good, old fashioned taste test. If the taste of a cup of coffee is bitter, there's a good chance it was over extracted during the drip. On the opposite end, an under extracted cup of coffee will typically taste weak -- it can even taste sour or have the flavor of soggy peanuts. And to be certain, we brew identical test runs a minimum of three times to achieve average results. More coffee recommendations 8 gifts for coffee lovers Coffee products you never knew you needed The best coffee grinder you can buy right now 9 great coffee subscriptions for every type of coffee drinker How to make the best cold-brew coffee The best espresso machines for 2020 Best coffee accessories of 2020 Comments Smart Home Ninja KitchenAid Amazon Fox Notification on Notification off Coffee Makers Close Discuss: Best coffee maker for 2020: Bonavita, Ninja, Oxo, Moccamaster and more Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.