https://www.cnet.com/news/how-to-fix-your-bad-tv-settings-according-to-hollywoods-biggest-directors-james-cameron/
How to fix your bad TV settings, according to Hollywood's biggest directors - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In How to fix your bad TV settings, according to Hollywood's biggest directors James Cameron, Christopher Nolan and more have a magic button. Jennifer Bisset August 27, 2019 8:40 PM PDT Arya sticks the Night King with the pointy end. HBO The Long Night stood out for many as one of the better episodes in the tumultuous final season of Game of Thrones. However, amid Arya victoriously offing the Night King there was a fairly major issue with the nighttime setting. When the episode first aired, many complained they could barely see what in Westeros was happening. That's because our TV settings, according to the episode's cinematographer Fabien Wagner, weren't tuned properly. But all's good! A host of big name filmmakers including Martin Scorsese, Christopher Nolan, Ryan Coogler, Patty Jenkins and Rian Johnson have come to the rescue. Working with UHD Alliance, a coalition including Hollywood studios and consumer electronics manufacturers, they've come up with a Filmmaker Mode setting for supported TVs. "Your Skynet is motion smoothing. … Luckily our John Connor has arrived," explained Star Wars: The Last Jedi director Rian Johnson, according to The Hollywood Reporter. In non-sci-fi words, the director pointed to motion smoothing, otherwise known as the troublesome Soap Opera Effect, being a default setting for many TVs. Filmmaker Mode will provide "a single button that lines up the settings so it works for the benefit of the movie and not against it." Other huge directors, including Paul Thomas Anderson, James Cameron, J.J. Abrams, Ava DuVernay, Judd Apatow, Ang Lee, Reed Moreno and the Duffer brothers, showed their support in a video explaining the initiative. Surprisingly, Tom Cruise and Mission Impossible - Fallout director Christopher McQuarrie weren't among the starry names behind the initiative. Taking a break from filming Top Gun: Maverick at the end of last year, the duo filmed a short PSA on how to best watch Ethan Hunt on the small screen by turning off motion smoothing. After the directors reached out to the UHDA about the initiative, the Alliance sought input from more than 400 filmmakers in the specification development process. There's no word on when Filmmaker Mode will be available, but companies like LG, Panasonic and Vizio have committed to the setting. 2019 TV shows you can't miss 50 Photos Comments TV and Movies Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: How to fix your bad TV settings, according to Hollywood's biggest directors Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.