https://www.cnet.com/news/at-t-pushes-back-target-date-for-t-mobile-buy/
AT&T pushes back target date for T-Mobile buy - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In AT&T pushes back target date for T-Mobile buy Thanks to the Justice Department lawsuit and increased regulatory scrutiny, AT&T now expects the deal to close in the first half of next year. Roger Cheng November 4, 2011 11:25 AM PDT The regulatory scrutiny is starting to get to AT&T and its bid to acquire T-Mobile USA. AT&T disclosed in its quarterly regulatory filing that it now expects the deal to close in the first half of 2012, compared with its previous target of the first quarter. The Dow Jones Newswires was the first to report the change. The regulatory scrutiny has also caused it to push back the target date for its acquisition of spectrum from Qualcomm. AT&T now expects that deal to close in the first quarter of 2012, rather than the end of the year. The companies are waiting for approval from the Federal Communications Commission. AT&T has been under increasing pressure to demonstrate why an acquisition of T-Mobile would benefit consumers. The Justice Department sued to block the deal, citing concern for innovation in the wireless industry and the risk of increased prices. Sprint Nextel and regional carrier C Spire (formerly Cellular South) have also piggybacked atop the Justice Department with their own lawsuits challenging the deal. AT&T, meanwhile, maintains the deal is critical to its ability to secure necessary spectrum to handle growing traffic. The company also argues that the deal will not affect prices and will actually create jobs. In responding to the Justice Department lawsuit, AT&T has said that T-Mobile doesn't pose a competitive risk, so a deal wouldn't affect the market. While technology companies, the unions, and several states have supported the deal, other state attorneys general, consumer groups, and wireless players have expressed concerns over such a merger, which would create the nation's largest wireless provider. A federal judge on Wednesday allowed Sprint and C Spire to pursue their lawsuits against AT&T, though she threw out some components of the complaint. Comments AT&T Sprint T-Mobile Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: AT&T pushes back target date for T-Mobile buy Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.