https://www.cnet.com/news/tariff-wars-o2-iphone-vs-the-rest/
Tariff wars: O2 iPhone vs the rest - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Tariff wars: O2 iPhone vs the rest The iPhone is finally coming in November, but will you be getting the most for your money? We take a look at similarly priced non-iPhone deals to find out Andrew Lim November 5, 2007 2:43 AM PST Update (5.11.07): O2 has scrapped its fair usage policy for the iPhone. 'Unlimited' now means unlimited, so you can browse the Web over EDGE (2.75G) as much as you like. So you want to buy an iPhone in November, but you're confused about what it's going to cost you and whether or not it comes with the best tariff on offer? We've put together a few similarly priced non-iPhone deals so you can compare what's available on the market at the moment. Now before anyone starts complaining that this comparison isn't fair because you don't get an iPhone on the non-O2 deals, we must point out that this article is simply pointing out other similarly priced tariff deals and not focusing on hardware. If you really want an iPhone you have no choice but to buy it on an O2 contract. O2's iPhone deal, as you can see in the tariffs and prices table above, is divided into three parts. There are £35, £45 and £55 per month contracts, all of which last for 18 months. Before you sign up, of course, you have to pay £269 for the iPhone itself -- so no free handset on this deal. The O2 tariffs and prices table should be fairly self-explanatory and we'll refer to it later on. Pay particular attention to how many free minutes and texts you get relative to the monthly tariff. If you're wondering what the asterisk next to 'unlimited data' is, it refers to O2's 'fair usage' policy, which is essentially how much data you can download over-the-air before the network starts asking questions. O2's fair usage policy stands at 200MB worth of downloads per month, which it claims is equivalent to 1,400 Web pages. The tariff comparison in this article is based on what you could get for £35 per month (or below), which is the lowest iPhone tariff available from O2. Update (5.11.07): O2 has scrapped its fair usage policy for the iPhone. 'Unlimited' now means unlimited, so you can browse the Web over EDGE (2.75G) as much as you like. T-Mobile Flext 30 + Web 'n' Walk Price of handset: Free* Price per month: £32.50 Contract length: 18 months Inclusive minutes: Up to 450, based on the T-Mobile Flext 30 Inclusive SMS: Up to 900, based on the T-Mobile Flext 30 Data: Unlimited (fair usage policy of 1GB/month) Voicemail: 12p per message Total cost**: £585 O2 iPhone Price of handset: £269 Price per month: £35 Contract length: 18 months Inclusive minutes: 200 Inclusive SMS: 200 Data: Unlimited (fair usage policy of 200MB/month) Voicemail: Free Total cost**: £899 *Not all handsets on this network are free with this deal, but certain ones are. You may have to pay some money towards high-end models. **The total cost figure is how much it would cost if you stuck within the limits of your inclusive calls, SMS and data charges over the 18-month contract period. You will be charged more if you go beyond these limits. Update (5.11.07): O2 has scrapped its fair usage policy for the iPhone. 'Unlimited' now means unlimited, so you can browse the Web over EDGE (2.75G) as much as you like. 3 X-Series Silver Price of handset: Free* Price per month: £20 Contract length: 18 months Inclusive minutes: 250 Inclusive SMS: 50 Data: Unlimited (fair use policy of 1GB/month) Voicemail: 10p per minute Total cost**: £360 O2 iPhone Price of handset: £269 Price per month: £35 Contract length: 18 months Inclusive minutes: 200 Inclusive SMS: 200 Data: Unlimited (fair usage policy of 200MB/month) Voicemail: Free Total cost**: £899 *Not all handsets on this network are free with this deal, but certain ones are. You may have to pay some money towards high-end models. **The total cost figure is how much it would cost if you stuck within the limits of your inclusive calls, SMS and data charges over the 18-month contract period. You will be charged more if you go beyond these limits. Update (5.11.07): O2 has scrapped its fair usage policy for the iPhone. 'Unlimited' now means unlimited, so you can browse the Web over EDGE (2.75G) as much as you like. Vodafone £25 Best for Both plan + Mobile Internet Price of handset: Free* Price per month: £32.50 Contract length: 18 months Inclusive minutes: 225 Inclusive SMS: 250 Data: Unlimited (Fair use policy of 120Mb/month) Voicemail: 18p Total cost**: £585 O2 iPhone Price of handset: £269 Price per month: £35 Contract length: 18 months Inclusive minutes: 200 Inclusive SMS: 200 Data: Unlimited (Fair usage policy of 200MB/month) Voicemail: Free Total cost**: £899 *Not all handsets on this network are free with this deal, but certain ones are. You may have to pay some money towards high-end models. **The total cost figure is how much it would cost if you stuck within the limits of your inclusive calls, SMS and data charges over the 18-month contract period. You will be charged more if you go beyond these limits. Comments Phones Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Tariff wars: O2 iPhone vs the rest Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.