https://www.cnet.com/news/at-t-offers-more-data-to-fcc-for-t-mobile-deal/
AT&T offers more data to FCC for T-Mobile deal - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In AT&T offers more data to FCC for T-Mobile deal AT&T has filed additional data with the FCC to support its claims that its proposed $39 billion takeover of T-Mobile will benefit consumers. Marguerite Reardon July 26, 2011 8:09 AM PDT AT&T filed additional information to the Federal Communications Commission late yesterday to support its claims that wireless pricing will fall and service quality will rise if regulators approve its $39 billion takeover of T-Mobile USA. AT&T has said since the deal was announced in March that it would benefit consumers with lower prices and improved service quality. Last week, the FCC asked the company to provide new economic models that use additional data points as part of the agency's evaluation of the deal. The FCC and the Department of Justice are reviewing the merger. Each agency must give its stamp of approval for the deal to go through. In a letter filed along with the new data, AT&T said that the deal with T-Mobile would "relieve significant capacity constraints faced by both companies and lead to improved service quality." The economic models submitted to the FCC include analysis of data from 15 major markets, including New York, Los Angeles, Washington, D.C., and San Francisco. "In each market, the merger simulations project that industry output will rise and average price adjusted for quality will fall as a result of the transaction," AT&T said in its letter. The analysis, which AT&T developed after the FCC began reviewing the merger, focuses on how the merger would lower costs and, ultimately, pricing as the two companies gained efficiencies through combining their networks. The actual data filed with the FCC is confidential, and parts of the cover letter that accompanied the new filing were also redacted, since they contained confidential information. Typically, the FCC tries to finish reviewing mergers within 180 days. Last week, the agency stopped the "shot clock" on the deal to give AT&T time to file the additional information. Now that AT&T has filed this information, the FCC is expected to restart the clock. Opponents of the merger, such as Public Knowledge, criticized AT&T for putting forth a new "justification for taking over T-Mobile." The consumer advocacy group said that AT&T is acting like a coach in a losing game that calls a time-out to work the referees. "While the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) stops its merger review process to examine the new plan, AT&T will use the time to spend more millions of dollars lobbying federal, state and local officials and recruiting non-governmental groups to support what is clearly a failing action," Gigi Sohn, president of Public Knowledge, said in a statement yesterday before the new models had been filed at the FCC. "Unless this new 'model' can come up with a different answer to the problem of 4-1=3, (which would inevitably be followed by 3-1=2) we're not interested," she went on to say. "Removing a major competitor from the national wireless market still makes no sense." The merger has also been criticized by some lawmakers. Last week, Sen. Herb Kohl (D-Wis.), who chairs the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust matters, asked regulators to block the merger. Separately, three Democratic leaders in the House also sent a letter to the FCC and Department of Justice raising concerns about the deal. The Senate and House judiciary committees have each already held hearings on the proposed merger. And the Senate and House commerce committees are expected to hold their own public hearings before the agencies decide whether to approve the merger. Some AT&T customers are also trying to block the merger through arbitration. Comments Tech Industry AT&T FCC T-Mobile Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: AT&T offers more data to FCC for T-Mobile deal Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.