https://www.cnet.com/news/intel-has-new-ideas-for-mobile-computing/
Intel has new ideas for mobile computing - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Intel has new ideas for mobile computing If in the future you're looking for a handheld device that connects to the Internet, Intel doesn't think you'll want a smart phone. Tom Krazit September 19, 2007 12:36 PM PDT SAN FRANCISCO--Intel's a big company, with lots of money and smart people. It will need both to take over two separate industries. The company's official search for the next big thing is settling quite definitively on mobile computers. But this is actually two big things: not only does Intel want to create an entire new category of handheld computers called Mobile Internet Devices, it wants to set up a whole new network to service those devices. Intel executives Dadi Perlmutter and Anand Chandrasekher laid out the company's mobile strategy Wednesday here at the Intel Developer Forum during a pair of morning speeches. For the past several years, Intel's mobile strategy has centered around notebooks, but it's eyeing more than just PCs these days. Intel firmed up plans to ship Silverthorne, a new processor with lots of integrated features, next year. Chandrasekher showed off prototype devices built on Silverthorne that look an awful lot like the UMPCs that didn't exactly fly off the shelves: larger than a smart phone, dependent on a stylus, and many with a fixed keyboard. He also discussed a newer low-power concept called Moorestown that will consume 10 times less power than Menlow, the platform that will house Silverthorne. Silverthorne itself consumes 10 times less power than the original Banias Pentium M chip, Chandrasekher said. Intel is lining its Silverthorne chips up against the mobile industry's ARM-based processors in anticipation of the next silicon battleground. Having tried and failed to get its chips inside mobile phones, Intel's now trying to drum up demand for MIDs as a smart phone alternative to getting the Internet in your pocket, as Chandrasekher put it. He must have bigger pockets than I do, because none of the MIDs shown onstage at IDF would fit comfortably in my pocket. The company will get a little closer to that goal with Moorestown. Chandrasekher didn't say much about that chip, but showed off a concept device that bore a striking resemblance to an iPhone that had been stretched lengthwise. Just a coincidence, I'm sure. But whatever Intel's partners build with its mobile chips, they'll have to somehow connect to the Internet. That's where WiMax comes in. Intel has been talking up WiMax for several years as an alternative to cellular networks and to the expense of wiring the world with high-speed cable. It's finally getting ready to start testing the waters with its mainstream products. Next year, Intel will refresh its notebook technology with a product called Montevina. That will come with a Penryn processor, a new chipset, and an integrated Wi-Fi/WiMax radio that will come as an option as part of the Centrino brand. It will be interesting to see how many people opt for the WiMax radio, or even whether they know they have WiMax service available. Later today I'll get a chance to check out the devices themselves, and ask more questions about Intel's strategy for MIDs and WiMax. Stay tuned. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Intel has new ideas for mobile computing Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.