https://www.cnet.com/news/polaroid-now-gives-the-classic-instant-camera-a-new-look-and-lens/
Polaroid Now gives the classic instant camera a new look and lens - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Polaroid Now gives the classic instant camera a new look and lens It's still analog, but just a little more automatic. Joshua Goldman March 26, 2020 5:00 AM PDT Leer en español Listen - 01:48 The camera is available in a range of colors. Joshua Goldman/CNET For the most up-to-date news and information about the coronavirus pandemic, visit the WHO website. This probably isn't the best time to announce a new product, let alone an analog instant camera. A camera that's almost entirely about being close to people and sharing experiences. But that's not stopping Polaroid from moving forward with its new Polaroid Now camera. I had a few days to test out the camera so I used it to document the quiet of what would normally be an active and lively park and then my family coping with being cooped up for days. The camera itself is designed to be easier to hold and shoot with, which is saying something for a point-and-shoot camera. Shooting with it simultaneously kept me in the moment while taking my mind off the circumstances around it. It's easier to hold and shoot with than you might expect. Josh Goldman/CNET The Now has a newly designed autofocus lens that will switch for portrait or distance photos. It also has a more accurate flash that adjusts for lighting conditions, for better low-light results. Plus, the self-timer button on the front can be used for double exposures. An LED counter on the back lets you know how many shots are left in the eight-print packs of the company's i-Type film. The body is less angular than the company's last two models, the OneStep Plus and OneStep 2, with curves that make it feel smaller and more comfortable. Polaroid says the battery life is better, too, lasting for up to 15 packs of film on a single charge. In its announcement for the Now, Polaroid invited its community "to join them online and take this time to reflect, inspire, create and connect." In the coming weeks it'll host an "evolving program of creative content and ask fans to suggest ideas and share Polaroid photographs to help inspire as, for the time being, we settle into this new "at home" reality." So I guess my initial feeling was wrong. Now seems as good of a time as any for an instant camera. The Polaroid Now is available direct from the company's site for $100. The camera is available in black and white versions, as well as in Polaroid's five iconic rainbow colors of red, orange, yellow, green and blue for a limited time. Polaroid Now is a new look for the classic instant camera 18 Photos Comments Coronavirus Notification on Notification off Cameras Close Discuss: Polaroid Now gives the classic instant camera a new look and lens Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.