https://www.cnet.com/news/shazam-aqa-the-answer-is-on-your-mobile/
Shazam & AQA: The answer is on your mobile - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Shazam & AQA: The answer is on your mobile Mobile services are renowned for their lacklustre performance, but Shazam and AQA are two services that had us staring at our phone as though it was the Rosetta stone Andrew Lim April 24, 2006 2:24 AM PDT There are few mobile services out there that do something useful, and there are even fewer that are jaw-droppingly cool. However, if you think that there aren't any mobile services that will make you smile with technological wonder, then you haven't heard of Shazam or AQA. Shazam is a music-recognition service that works via your mobile. There's no fiddly software to download and you won't need GPRS, WAP or any other elusive acronym to mess around with in order to use it. All you do is dial 2580 from any mobile and hold up the handset to a song that's being played in a bar, car stereo or anywhere you hear a tune you dig. After 30 seconds the phone will hang itself up and two or three minutes later you'll be sent a text message with the song title and artist name, forever putting an end to those 'what's this song?' moments. The service, also known as 'tagging', even works in noisy conditions -- it really does, we tried it out in Soho on a Saturday night. Recently, Shazam has added links in the text message to track downloads that you can collect online, as well as a new online service that keeps track of all your tags. For £4.50 a month you can use Shazam as much as you like and keep an online record of every song you 'tag'. This also includes two free downloads of either a full track or a ringtone version of the song. Alternatively, if you don't want to subscribe, you can use Shazam for 60p a go. The other mobile service that will make the most hardened of cynics break down in amazement is AQA, or Any Question Answered, which was founded by former Psion and Symbian top brass. Again, there's no downloading or Internet browsing involved -- all you need to do is text any question you need answered to 63336 and let AQA do the rest. The question can be practically anything you can think of and according to AQA, it has answered questions ranging from tax to sex, so nothing is taboo. (Our favourite, apart from the rude ones: How many people in the world today have a cold? AQA: 86,191,000. Don't ask us how they know. Text AQA, they'll tell you.) Once the text message is sent, in a matter of minutes you will be texted back with an answer that should satisfy your needs. It's recently hit the 2 million questions mark and tomorrow it celebrates its second year in business, so it looks like it's going to have a very happy birthday. Each question costs £1, but don't let that you put you off -- a measly quid is nothing once you've downed too many tequila shots and can't remember the number for a cab home. -AL Comments Phones Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Shazam & AQA: The answer is on your mobile Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.