https://www.cnet.com/news/apples-new-3d-maps-app-brings-smart-gps-to-ios/
Apple's new 3D Maps app brings smart GPS to iOS - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Apple's new 3D Maps app brings smart GPS to iOS The iPhone, iPad, and iPod Touch are receiving a new default Maps app directly from Apple itself. Lance Whitney June 11, 2012 11:55 AM PDT Now playing: Watch this: Apple launches 3D maps on iOS 6 5:46 Related stories Complete WWDC 2012 coverage Apple: Retina display MacBook Pro starts at $2,199 First take: MacBook Pro with Retina Display Apple talks up Facebook integration for iOS 6 Apple unveils iOS 6 with 200 new features, Siri gets update Siri coming to iPad, can launch apps Apple is bringing both 3D and a huge dose of GPS to its new Maps app for iOS. The iPhone maker revealed today at WWDC a new in-house 3D Maps app built entirely from the ground up. The 3D option isn't turned on by default but can easily be switched on by the user via a large button logically dubbed 3D. The Flyover feature displays 3D, photographic maps that you can rotate with your fingers to get a true view of any location. Why Flyover? Search for a location or landmark, and the app flies you over there to bring you the bird's-eye view. But 3D is also available in satellite view, slightly higher than your average bird can fly. And 3D isn't the only cool feature. The app is tapping into the GPS arena by helping drivers trying to navigate their way through traffic. Besides offering turn-by-turn directions, the app includes a new traffic service that shows you the location of accidents, courtesy of crowd-sourcing, so you can try to avoid them. The app also displays the ETA for your destination and will try to uncover a better route when you're stuck in traffic. It even works when your iPhone or iPad is at the lock screen. And you don't have to take your eyes off the road, since the app works with Siri. You can tell your device where you want to go, and Siri will speak the directions to you and alert you to where you have to go next. Overall, the new Maps app sounds like a win for iOS users, but GPS device makers aren't likely to be too happy with the competition. Apple's WWDC 2012: iOS 6, Mountain Lion, and more (pictures) 27 Photos Comments Mobile Accessories Software Car Tech Internet Mobile iOS 6 Siri Apple Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Apple's new 3D Maps app brings smart GPS to iOS Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.