https://www.cnet.com/news/iphone-sdk-unveiled-plus-support-for-microsoft-exchange/
iPhone SDK unveiled, plus support for Microsoft Exchange - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In iPhone SDK unveiled, plus support for Microsoft Exchange Last night Apple announced details for the iPhone SDK and support for Microsoft Exchange, two reasons why the iPhone is really growing on us Andrew Lim June 22, 2009 2:23 AM PDT SDK -- otherwise known as software development kit -- might not mean anything to you right now, but it will change your mobile life if you own an iPhone or are planning on buying one in the future. Last night Apple unleashed the iPhone SDK. It's incredibly important, because it busts the handset's potential wide open. Developers from around the world will now have the opportunity to create apps for the previously closed iPhone. The difference between these programs and what developers could previously achieve via Web apps, is that these will be able to fully access most of the iPhone's hardware, including the multi-touch feature, Wi-Fi and even the accelerometer. The accelerometer enables the iPhone to know when you've tilted the iPhone and can be used, as demoed last night, in conjunction with games, so that you could control a game by tilting the iPhone. You'll be able to download apps via the iTunes store from around June. Some of the apps will be free, while others you'll have to pay for. Apple will take a 30 per cent cut for any commercial apps and has set up a $100m fund to help budding iPhone app developers. But apps and games aside, one of the most exciting announcements made last night is that the iPhone will support Microsoft Exchange ActiveSync, which is massive news. One of the most common criticisms of the iPhone was the lack of email support for business users. Support for Exchange means that corporate types will be able to access their company emails on the go, in exactly the same way as you can on a Windows Mobile device or BlackBerry. It also lets you synchronise contact details and your work calendar. We're seriously excited about all the apps that are going to come out and believe this announcement to be a compelling reason to buy an iPhone. If there's one app we'd like someone to make it would be a 3D GoldenEye-style shooter that lets you attach a Bluetooth gamepad and play your friends over Wi-Fi -- here's a link to the developer page so you can get started. -Andrew Lim Comments Phones Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: iPhone SDK unveiled, plus support for Microsoft Exchange Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.