https://www.cnet.com/news/best-streaming-device-of-2020/
Best streaming device of 2020: Roku, Apple TV, Fire Stick, Nvidia Shield and more compared - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best streaming device of 2020: Roku, Apple TV, Fire Stick, Nvidia Shield and more compared Plenty of hardware options exist for streaming Netflix, YouTube, Amazon and the rest. Here are our picks for the best. Ty Pendlebury, David Katzmaier March 8, 2020 12:15 AM PST Leer en español Best streamer overall Roku Streaming Stick Plus Jump to details $55 at Walmart Best high-end streamer Apple TV 4K Jump to details $179 at Apple Best for gamers Nvidia Shield TV Jump to details $150 at Walmart Best for Amazon fans Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Jump to details $50 at Best Buy Best budget streamer Roku Express Jump to details $24 at Walmart Best for Android and Google Assistant users Google Chromecast Jump to details $35 at Walmart Best soundbar-streaming combo Roku Smart Soundbar Jump to details $180 at Roku Best convenience features Roku Ultra Jump to details $99 at Abt Electronics Show more (3 items) This guide will help you find the best device that connects to your TV and streams video -- something you'll likely use every day for multiple hours at a time to watch movies and TV. We've reviewed every major smart TV system and all the major streaming media devices on the market today, including Roku, Amazon, Chromecast, and Apple TV. With the exception of TVs that actually run Roku's or Amazon's software, TV streaming devicese have more apps, better search, simpler remotes and more frequent updates than the smarts built into your set. So if your current media streaming device is getting long in the tooth, or you're looking for the best streaming device to go with that new 4K HDR TV, chances are you'll be more than happy with one of these. Best streamer overall Roku Streaming Stick Plus Sarah Tew/CNET Roku is our favorite streaming system, with the most streaming apps, the simplest interface, the best search and a content-agnostic platform that doesn't push any one media streaming provider, like Amazon Prime Video or iTunes, over another. The Plus is one of the cheapest streaming TV options with 4K HDR, and even if your current TV doesn't support those formats, your next one probably will. Its accent on practical features, like a remote control that can control your TV's volume and power, seals the deal. Read our Roku Streaming Stick Plus review. $55 at Walmart $40 at Best Buy $55 at Crutchfield Read more: Best live TV streaming services for cord cutters in 2020 Best high-end streamer Apple TV 4K The perfect foil to the Roku Streaming Stick Plus, the Apple TV costs over $100 more but is the better choice for people who can appreciate its advantages. Those include compatibility with Dolby Vision HDR, flexible upconversion, superior voice control features, a better remote and a smoother, slicker user interface. The Apple TV 4K is so good for media streaming, it even makes sense if you're not an "Apple person." Read our Apple TV 4K review. $179 at Apple $180 at Best Buy $175 at B&H Photo-Video Best for gamers Nvidia Shield TV Sarah Tew/CNET Sure, it's an expensive media streamer at $150 -- and that's before adding a game controller -- but if you want a Jack-of-all-trades video media player, the Shield is it. In addition to a streaming media player in 4K and HDR, it offers a robust library of games, both console-level and Android, Steam Link, built-in Google Assistant complete with smart home control, NAS access, Plex server capability, HDHomeRun integration and much more. Read our review of the Nvidia Shield TV. $150 at Walmart $150 at Best Buy $150 at B&H Photo-Video Best for Amazon fans Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Sarah Tew/CNET With Alexa, Amazon has done more than any other company to integrate voice commands into the ways we consume media. The Fire TV Stick 4K bakes Alexa right into the remote, and you can use voice control to search for Gremlins or turn on your Christmas tree. Or both at the same time. Throw in a massive selection of content with an easy-to-use menu and the Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K represents excellent value for money when it comes to streaming media. Read our Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K review. $50 at Best Buy $100 at HSN Best budget streamer Roku Express Sarah Tew/CNET For the price of a Blu-ray movie disc, you can get a whole media streamer, which comes with plenty of free content. The Express delivers all of the goodness of Roku's platform, and it includes a remote, an HDMI cable and a little sticker to keep it in place. Read our Roku Express (2019) review. $24 at Walmart Best for Android and Google Assistant users Google Chromecast Sarah Tew/CNET The Chromecast is one of the cheapest ways to get video to stream on your TV, but unlike the other streamers here it doesn't come with a remote. Instead it works in combination with a phone or the Google Assistant for voice control and voice search. The latter method is great for calling up shows on Netflix or Disney Plus. Read our Google Chromecast 2018 review. $35 at Walmart $35 at Best Buy $35 at B&H Photo-Video Best soundbar-streaming combo Roku Smart Soundbar Sarah Tew/CNET Soundbars with streaming onboard may be a relatively recent development, but Roku's Smart Soundbar came fully formed out of the gate. With excellent sound, the Roku interface users know and love and an affordable price, this a great option for a media streamer in a bedroom or holiday house. Read CNET's review of the Roku Smart Soundbar. $180 at Roku Best convenience features Roku Ultra Sarah Tew/CNET At $100, this the most expensive Roku, but if you must "have it all" then the Roku Ultra has a lot to offer. While the image quality and operating system are indistinguishable from the Streaming Stick Plus, the Ultra is especially handy for the forgetful among us. The Ultra offers both a remote finder and two extra customizable shortcut buttons for your favorite services. Read our Roku Ultra (2019) review. $99 at Abt Electronics $100 at Best Buy $100 at Crutchfield Sarah Tew/CNET Read more Best universal remotes of 2020 YouTube TV vs. Sling TV: Which live TV streaming service is best for you? This is the best cheap live-TV streaming service for cord cutters Best AV receivers of 2020 The best Google Assistant and Google Home devices of 2020 Comments Media Streamers Amazon Google Nvidia Roku Apple Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Best streaming device of 2020: Roku, Apple TV, Fire Stick, Nvidia Shield and more compared Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.