https://www.cnet.com/news/ways-to-use-google-home-in-the-kitchen/
9 ways to use the Google Home in the kitchen - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In 9 ways to use the Google Home in the kitchen The Google Home is helpful in just about any part of the house, but it's extra useful in the kitchen. Here are nine ways to use the Google Home while you cook. Taylor Martin May 9, 2017 4:37 PM PDT Now playing: Watch this: You've got a cooking teacher in the Google Home 1:38 Smart speakers have proven themselves useful around the house. They're great for streaming music, getting updates on the news, controlling your smart home, fact checking and much more. But of all the places you can have a smart speaker in your home, one of the places it can be the most useful is in the kitchen. Below are nine ways to use the Google Home ($99 at Walmart) in the kitchen. Set a timer A Google Home feature you will find most helpful in the kitchen is the timer function. To set a timer, just say, "OK, Google, set a timer for five minutes." Check on the status of a timer with, "OK, Google, how much time is left on my timer?" To cancel, pause or resume a timer, just tell the Google Home. You can also be a little more specific by giving a timer a name, such as, "OK, Google, set a 20 minute time for pizza." Then you can check on that specific timer by saying, "OK, Google, how much time is left on my pizza?" Get recipe ideas Last month, Google updated the Google Home with support for over five million recipes. Similar to the Allrecipes skill for Alexa, Google Home will read recipes aloud to you. To select a recipe, find a recipe in either Google Assistant on your Android phone or the Google Search app on iOS or Android and click the Send to Google Home button. Then, to start the recipe, just say, "OK, Google, start cooking." The Google Home will then walk you through the recipe step by step, moving on to the next step only when you tell it to. Ask for calorie counts For the health-conscious, you can ask the Google Home for the caloric values of basic foods and common dishes and, if available, it will give you an approximation. Say something like, "OK, Google, how many calories are there in a boiled egg?" You can also ask for sodium, carbohydrates, protein, grams of fat and other nutritional information, but you might not always get an answer. Build a shopping list The Google Home can help you keep a shopping list, too. Last month, it switched the shopping list over to Google Express, which lets you shop items straight from the list. To add items to your shopping list, just say, "OK, Google, add eggs to my shopping list." Check what's on your shopping list by opening the Google Express app on Android or iOS or saying, "OK, Google, what's on my shopping list?" Convert units If you need to know how many cups are in a gallon or how many milliliters are in a teaspoon, just ask the Google Home. Say, "OK, Google, how many milliliters are in a cup?" or, "OK, Google, convert 3 cups to milliliters." Pair foods with wine Out of the box, the Google Home doesn't know which wine goes best with tilapia, but Wine Guide can help. Wine Guide is a third-party service and all you have to do to use it is say: "OK, Google, let me talk to Wine Guide." "OK, Google, ask Wine Guide what goes with chicken tacos." "OK, Google, ask Wine Guide what goes with pizza." "OK, Google, ask Wine Guide what goes with flounder." Get cocktail recipe ideas The Google Home currently has two third-party services that will give you cocktail recipes and ideas: Tender and The Bartender. Tender has over 600 curated cocktails in its database. Just ask for something you like by saying, "OK, Google, ask Tender for a drink like a mojito." You can also tell Tender to surprise you or ask what's in your favorite cocktail. The Bartender works very similarly, but pulls from a database of over 12,000 cocktail recipes. You can ask for drinks with gin and lemon juice or what'a in an old fashioned. Just say, "OK, Google, ask The Bartender what's in a White Russian." Control kitchen gadgets and appliances The Anova Wi-Fi Precision Cooker is one of the few kitchen gadgets that works directly with the Google Home. Using the third-party service, you can say, "OK, Google, ask Anova to start cooking," or "OK, Google, tell Anova to set my cooker's temperature to 150 degrees." You can also check on the status of the cook and ask for cooking guides. For devices that aren't directly integrated with the Google Home, you can rely on the IFTTT integration to control other kitchen gadgets, like GE Appliances, Home Connect Oven, Samsung Refrigerator, WeMo Coffeemaker and WeMo Slow Cooker or the Wink: Egg Minder. Catch up on the news or podcasts Finally, one of the Google Home's most useful features in the kitchen is its streaming capabilities. With it in the kitchen, you can listen to your podcasts, stream your favorite radio station or even catch up on the news. And best of all, you can switch it up or change what's playing without having to wash or wipe your hands off first. Comments Smart Home Google Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: 9 ways to use the Google Home in the kitchen Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.