https://www.cnet.com/news/t-mobile-will-deploy-blazing-5g-this-year-but-you-cant-use-it-yet/
T-Mobile will bring 5G to 30 cities this year - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In T-Mobile will deploy blazing 5G this year, but you can't use it Cities like LA and New York will be the first to get the next-gen network, but T-Mobile will put off a commercial launch until 2019 when 5G phones are ready. Roger Cheng February 27, 2018 8:45 AM PST Leer en español T-Mobile CTO Neville Ray, speaking at Mobile World Congress, says the carrier will deploy mobile 5G in 30 cities this year. Roger Cheng/CNET The race to turn 5G from hype into reality has hit another gear. T-Mobile will deploy mobile 5G to 30 cities this year, including New York and Los Angeles, Chief Technology Officer Neville Ray said Tuesday at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. The company still plans to launch the service next year and provide nationwide coverage by 2020. The move is just the latest bit of jockeying as US carriers attempt to one-up their rivals on the claim of getting to 5G first. Although T-Mobile said it's deploying the next-generation technology this year, consumers won't see any real benefits until 2019 when the first 5G-capable smartphones hit the market. Boasting about 5G has become the new favorite pastime for carriers, which are eager to drive buzz and attention to their networks in a continuing bid to win your business. Verizon was the first to stoke the 5G hype back in 2015 by announcing its intention to test the technology. Verizon also insists it will be the first to offer 5G as a replacement for home internet service and plans to deploy that tech in the second half of 2018. Now playing: Watch this: What the heck is a 5G network? 1:29 Sprint CEO Marcelo Claure has promised to build the first nationwide 5G network by early 2019. It'll take a big step in that direction this year when it rolls out 5G capabilities to Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles and Washington, DC, though Sprint customers won't be able to access 5G until the service launches next year. AT&T has said it will have mobile 5G available in a dozen markets, including Atlanta and Dallas, later this year. Ray, however, downplayed the current competition. "I don't want to win the 2018 race," Ray said during his speech. "It's a meaningless race." On Tuesday, T-Mobile named four of the 30 cities getting 5G. Besides New York and LA, Las Vegas and Dallas, where AT&T is based, are on the list. "When we built our LTE network, we had the unlimited future in mind, and we take that same approach here," Ray said. "Every dollar we invest in our network is a 5G dollar." The company said it is already deploying equipment that is 5G-ready, meaning it will be able to move to the next-generation technology with software upgrades. The carrier is planning to use the 600 megahertz spectrum it acquired from a government auction last year to partly power 5G. Ray said in an interview that T-Mobile will also use so-called millimeter wave spectrum, which runs at a higher frequency and is key to enabling those high speeds, in conjunction with the 600MHz spectrum. Ray said T-Mobile acquired the higher frequency airwaves from its acquisition of MetroPCS. While the comments come just weeks after Claure made his promise, Ray said Tuesday's announcement isn't a response to Sprint. Verizon is expected to launch commercial service in at least one market -- Sacramento -- later this year, while AT&T has promised that its network will run on "pucks," or wireless hotspots, by the end of 2018. MWC 2018: All the phones and gadgets announced so far 20 Photos Galaxy S9 and S9 Plus: Hands-on with Samsung's iPhone X fighters. MWC 2018: All of CNET's coverage from the biggest phone show of the year. Mobile World Congress 2020 See All • reading T-Mobile will deploy blazing 5G this year, but you can't use it • Mar 12 I got a peek at what your 5G-enabled AR home office could look like • Feb 27 LG's V60 ThinQ phone sees double in blue and white • Feb 26 Hands-on LG V60 ThinQ: 5G with 8K video and dual-screen • Feb 25 New details on Qualcomm's 5G VR prototypes: Cloud rendering, eye tracking, high-res displays Comments Mobile World Congress 2020 5G Samsung T-Mobile Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: T-Mobile will deploy blazing 5G this year, but you can't use it Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.