https://www.cnet.com/news/coronavirus-scams-have-justice-department-asking-for-your-help/
Coronavirus scams have Justice Department asking for your help - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Coronavirus scams have Justice Department asking for your help See something? Say something. The DOJ wants to quickly shut down "these most despicable of scammers." Joan E. Solsman March 22, 2020 3:14 PM PDT Listen - 02:25 Masks to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus are in short supply for health care workers in hard-hit areas. James Martin/CNET For the most up-to-date news and information about the coronavirus pandemic, visit the WHO website. The US Justice Department is asking the public to report any suspected fraud schemes related to the new coronavirus so officials can snuff out scams more quickly, US Attorney General William Barr said Friday. If you see a suspected scam, call the hotline for the National Center for Disaster Fraud at 1-866-720-5721 or email the NCDF at disaster@leo.gov, the department said. The NCDF is a part of the Justice Department. The Justice Department took its first action in the effort over the weekend, ordering the closure of a website that promised consumer access to a nonexistent World Health Organization vaccine kit for $4.95, payable by credit card, the Justice Department said in a statement Sunday. A temporary restraining order directed the website's registrar to immediately block public access to the site, the Justice Department said. "We will use every resource at the government's disposal to act quickly to shut down these most despicable of scammers, whether they are defrauding consumers, committing identity theft, or delivering malware," Assistant Attorney General Jody Hunt said in a statement. The coronavirus, which causes the respiratory disease known as COVID-19, has has rapidly spread, causing a pandemic and sparking crises worldwide. Cities, states and countries have mandated quarantines. Health care systems are scrambling. Entire industries have shut down. And the resulting fear and confusion have given hackers and scammers an opportunity to exploit, leading to new spins on some of the same old malware, phishing and snake oil schemes. The Justice Department listed examples of possible fraud schemes, including: Individuals and businesses selling fake cures for COVID-19, whether online or off. Phishing emails from entities posing as the World Health Organization or the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Malicious websites and apps that appear to share coronavirus-related information to gain and lock access to your devices until payment is received. Seeking donations fraudulently for illegitimate or nonexistent charitable organizations. Medical providers obtaining patient information for COVID-19 testing and then using that information to fraudulently bill for other tests and procedures. When people report suspected frauds to the NCDF, the center can enter complaints into a centralized system accessible by all US attorneys, as well as the DOJ's litigating and law enforcement officials, so they can investigate and prosecute them. The NCDF also coordinates complaints with 16 additional federal law enforcement agencies, as well as state attorneys general and local authorities. Coronavirus updates FDA warns at-home coronavirus tests are unauthorized and fraudulent Zoom has been a chaotic beacon of light during the coronavirus lockdown FBI says beware of stimulus-package scams Snowden says government surveillance amid COVID-19 could be long lasting Now playing: Watch this: Pandemic: Here's what's changed about the coronavirus 5:54 Coronavirus in pictures: Scenes from around the world 63 Photos Comments Politics Health and Wellness Coronavirus Notification on Notification off Sci-Tech Close Discuss: Coronavirus scams have Justice Department asking for your help Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.