https://www.cnet.com/news/oneplus-7-pro-5g-for-sprint-is-the-cheapest-5g-phone-yet/
OnePlus 7 Pro 5G for Sprint is the cheapest 5G phone yet - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In OnePlus 7 Pro 5G for Sprint is the cheapest 5G phone yet The fourth-largest US carrier is also turning on 5G in four more cities. Eli Blumenthal August 27, 2019 7:53 AM PDT OnePlus' 7 Pro 5G is coming to Sprint. Eli Blumenthal/CNET Update, Sept. 26: CNET's OnePlus 7T review is now live. Read more about the new phone from OnePlus. Original story follows. OnePlus is heading to Sprint, and it's doing so with a new 5G variant of the 7 Pro it launched earlier this year. The phone, called the OnePlus 7 Pro 5G, will be available in "select" Sprint stores on Tuesday before being sold online Wednesday. A nationwide release is set for Sept. 6. Available in the same blue finish as the regular 7 Pro, the new phone is largely similar to the one launched on T-Mobile and unlocked in May. Like the original 7 Pro it has a full-screen 6.67-inch display and a popup selfie camera. The big difference of course, is that it will support Sprint's midband 2.5GHz 5G network. At $840, it's also the most affordable 5G phone from a major carrier. Sprint's LG V50 ThinQ 5G sells for $1,000 while Samsung's Galaxy S10 5G runs $1,300. A special promo will drop the price for a "limited time" to $20 per month for 18 months ($360 total) when purchased on Sprint's Flex leasing plan. Now playing: Watch this: OnePlus 7 Pro 5G is Sprint's cheapest 5G phone yet 1:36 This is the first OnePlus smartphone to ride on Sprint's network, a testament to the upstart's expanding presence and reach. The phone-maker made a splash roughly a year ago by launching its flagship OnePlus 6T on T-Mobile, its first US carrier partner. T-Mobile and Sprint are still in the middle of trying to close their $26.5 billion mega-merger. For Sprint, the 7 Pro adds to its growing collection of 5G devices, which include the Galaxy S10 5G, the LG V50 ThinQ and the HTC 5G Hub. OnePlus 7 Pro is big, blue and budget friendly 24 Photos New 5G cities Because of the unique properties of its 5G spectrum, Sprint -- the fourth-largest carrier in the US, saddled with a reputation for poor service -- likely has the widest-reaching 5G network in the US. The company on Tuesday said it expanded its 5G coverage to New York, Phoenix, Washington, DC and Los Angeles. They were part of Sprint's initial nine 5G cities set to be live before the end of the first half of 2019, but were delayed. The other five cities are Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas-Forth Worth, Houston and the company's hometown of Kansas City, where its 5G service went live over the last few months. With the new launches, Sprint says it now covers close to 11 million people with 5G, including 1.7 million people in New York. While not as fast as the high-frequency millimeter-wave networks run by Verizon, AT&T and T-Mobile, Sprint's network fares better in warmer weather, works indoors and covers a much larger area. In recent tests around New York, Sprint's network ranged between 100 and 250Mbps. Where Sprint goes from here, however, is unknown. No new 5G cities have been announced as the company is in a holding pattern while it awaits clearance for its planned merger with T-Mobile. The Department of Justice and the Federal Communications Commission have both given the $26.5 billion deal their respective OKs, but 16 state attorneys general are currently suing to block it. Here's everything that 5G can do for you 16 Photos Comments Phones 5G LG Samsung Sprint T-Mobile OnePlus Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: OnePlus 7 Pro 5G for Sprint is the cheapest 5G phone yet Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.