https://www.cnet.com/news/ios-4-3-3-arrives-patches-location-database/
iOS 4.3.3 arrives, patches location database - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In iOS 4.3.3 arrives, patches location database Apple has released an update to iOS users that addresses the size and security of a location database stored on the device, and within the iTunes software. The fix comes exactly a week since Apple addressed the issue. Josh Lowensohn May 4, 2011 10:59 AM PDT CNET Apple today released, as promised, an iOS update addressing location-tracking behavior, and the security of that information on its portable devices. iOS 4.3.3, which is a free update delivered through Apple's iTunes software, reduces the size of the "crowdsourced" location cache, no longer backs up the cache to iTunes in the form of a device recovery image, and deletes the cache when a user turns Location Services off. Two of those issues--the size of the database, and the failure to delete the cache from the device--Apple had called "bugs" when addressing the issue in an open letter exactly one week ago. In that same note, Apple described the purpose of the location information stored on its devices as helping to speed up location fixes, saying that the database itself was part of a larger and anonymized one the company maintained to improve its location services. Apple also promised the next major version of the iOS software would fully encrypt the portion of that database on the device itself. Focus on the cache reached a fever pitch last month following a high-profile report by two researchers demonstrating ways to visualize the data it contained. Lawmakers and privacy advocates alike targeted the company, wanting to know why the file was there and what the company was up to. Apple countered queries that it was "tracking" users by saying it wasn't, and that it "has no plans to ever do so." Devices that are eligible for the update include the GSM model of the iPhone 4, iPhone 3GS, first- and second-generation iPad models, as well as third- and fourth-generation iPod Touch models. Users with Verizon (CDMA) iPhones are getting iOS 4.2.8, which brings similar fixes to the location cache. A report surfaced earlier this week from Boy Genius Report with accurate information about the version number of the update, and the adjustments, as well as a note that Apple planned to improve battery life with the update. Such a fix is not mentioned in the release notes from the software. Comments Mobile Accessories Tech Industry Mobile iTunes IBM Apple Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: iOS 4.3.3 arrives, patches location database Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.