https://www.cnet.com/news/best-portable-humidifiers-for-dry-skin-sinus-relief-and-sore-throats-2020/
Best portable humidifiers for dry skin, sinus relief and sore throats in 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best portable humidifiers for dry skin, sinus relief and sore throats in 2020 Your lungs, sinuses and skin don't like things too dry. This line up of air humidifiers will keep them moist these holidays. CNET staff February 29, 2020 9:37 PM PST Dewy, $39 Jump to details See at Dewy Mztdytl, $16 Jump to details See at Amazon Ostad, $20 Jump to details See at Amazon Ourry, $20 Jump to details See at Amazon Pure Enrichment, $30 Jump to details See at Pure Enrichment Sonifun, $16 Jump to details See at Amazon Show more (1 items) A portable humidifier is an effective way to help you combat the effects of exposure to the harsh dry air while traveling on a plane or staying in a hotel room. Dry eyes, dry skin, nosebleeds, dry sinuses and cracked lips are all telltale signs that the humidity level in your environs could be low. Adding a fine cool mist of water to the air while you sleep with a mini humidifier can significantly remedy these symptoms, often overnight. With so many options available, it can be difficult to figure out what the difference is between an evaporative humidifier, an ultrasonic humidifier (complete with demineralization cartridge, so you don't have to only use distilled water to avoid mineral buildup if you have hard water coming from your tap) and an essential oil diffuser. So to simplify your life, we went out and found some of the best portable humidifier options suitable for any smallish space, perfect for your hotel room, baby's nursery or travel. Read more: 6 essential cold and flu products you need whether you're sick or not The Ourry humidifier. Amazon Here's what we compared, beyond price: Size: How easily can it be packed or carried around? Duration: How long does a single fill last? LED lights: Are there LED lights? Can they be disabled (to avoid disturbances)? Design: Is the design aesthetically pleasing? Travel humidifiers, compared Humidifier Buying info *Max hours/fill Tank type Dewy $39 at Dewy 10 Reservoir Mztdytl $16 at Amazon 9 Reservoir Ostad $20 at Amazon Varies** Reservoir Ourry $22 at Amazon Varies** Water bottle Pure Enrichment $30 at Amazon Varies** Water bottle Sonifun $19 at Amazon 12 Reservoir *Max hours assume ongoing (not intermittent) usage. **With a 16.9-ounce water bottle. Run time varies depending on the size of the water bottle. Portable humidifiers are small but mighty devices that help increase moisture level in the air and raise the humidity, no matter where you are. Not to be confused with an essential oil diffuser, these humidifiers come in many different forms, depending on your preferences. Some use a water bottle as a tank, for example, while others have a built-in water reservoir to create water vapor. Most portable humidifiers work using cool mist ultrasonic technology, which uses high-frequency sound vibrations to create water particles that get expelled into the air, raising the air's moisture level. Unfortunately, we couldn't identify a portable evaporative steam humidifier, which is generally considered to be healthier, especially when you're using tap water. It is important to clean these ultrasonic humidifiers regularly to avoid introducing contaminants into the air like mold growth, dust, and bacteria. Read more: 7 hand soaps to fight germs, from cheap to luxury As you probably guessed, a travel humidifier will not add moisture to an entire house. At a minimum, it will increase the humidity of the air immediately around you (such as when placed on a bedside table); at most, it can be used to humidify a small room (about 200 square feet). This guide will give you an overview of the options available and considers types of humidifier models that meet a certain threshold of features, price, safety and customer satisfaction. Note that products that receive less than a B+ grade on Fakespot are excluded due to the overwhelming number of suspected fake or bias portable humidifier reviews. We've also omitted claims about the area (square footage) these devices can humidify since that can really only be determined through measured tests. Read more: The benefits of using a humidifier Dewy, $39 Dewy Dewy is marketed first as a skin and hair hydration device, jumping off the trendy idea that your skin is thirsty and what it needs is more moisture in the air. In the end, Dewy is another compact ultrasonic humidifier with a contemporary, Instagrammable design for people who want to take moisture with them everywhere. Like some of our other picks, Dewy is powered by a USB cord, so you can plug it into your laptop, car or any standard USB charging brick. On its normal, continuous setting, it releases a cool, clean mist for 10 hours; change it to the intermittent setting and you'll get a total of 20 hours of added moisture. Dewy is more expensive than cool mist humidifier options with similar specs, but you might feel better knowing that 10% of the company's profits go to The Water Project. It has LED illumination, which provides a soft night light for use in the bedroom. See at Dewy Read more: 7 wellness products to try for a healthier you Mztdytl, $16 Like Dewy, Ostad and Sonifun, this is a reservoir humidifier, which makes it a little less compact than some of the wand styles, but still very portable. It features a pill-style design (similar to Dewy and Sonifun) and comes in black, blue and white color options. We appreciate that, unlike some of our other picks, Mztdyl's LED light can be disabled in order to prevent any sleep interruption. It also claims to mist for about 9 hours on a single fill, which is pretty darn good for a $16 portable mini humidifier. It is recommended to clean the diffuser after each use to avoid clogging, and like others, the cotton wick needs to be replaced -- a 10-pack is about $9. How do you pronounce the name of this humidifier, you ask? We tried and failed. We have no idea. But if you want a portable cool mist humidifier with good specs at a cheap price, it probably doesn't matter. See at Amazon Read more: Theragun, Hypevolt, TimTam: The best percussive massage guns Ostad, $20 Ostad is really just a humidifier wand (like the Ourry) that comes with an accompanying cup. That is to say, you don't have to use the included cup; you can place the wand in any container. The benefit here is that the larger your water reservoir, the longer Ostad will emit a cool mist. Including the cup, the humidifier is about 7 by 3 inches and much smaller as a wand. This makes it incredibly portable, easy to pack and a great travel humidifier. Like some of our other picks (like Dewy and Ourry), Ostad is powered by USB, so you can take it in the car, plug it into your computer or even power it with a portable battery pack. Ostad uses a cotton wick to release moisture, which you'll need to replace as often as weekly, depending on how frequently you use your humidifier. Ostad does glow blue when it's running, so this may not be a good choice for the bedroom. See at Amazon Read more: Perfect skin, sinus relief and a Roomba-like toothbrush: 5 wellness devices you'll want in 2020 Ourry, $20 Amazon Most water bottle-type portable humidifiers work by having a water bottle screwed into the device. Ourry is different. The humidifier, which looks like a wand, can be dropped into any container of water, including a cup or bottle. The benefit here is that the unit could mist for a pretty long time, depending on how large your container is. Another one of the pros of this design is the size. At full length, Ourry is about the size of a chubby marker, making it extremely compact. You can make it even smaller by adjusting the wand, which makes it about 5 inches tall. Like some of our other picks, Ourry is USB-powered, so you can take the unit on the road, plug it into your laptop and even replace the included cord with another one at the length of your choosing. We especially appreciate that this little cool mist humidifier doesn't have a bright light, which can be problematic when sleeping. See at Amazon Read more: Best essential oil diffusers of 2020 Pure Enrichment, $30 Amazon Water bottle-based portable humidifiers are theoretically more compact since the reservoir isn't built into the device. The downside to this design is that some Amazon customers report difficulty in finding bottles that fit perfectly. Pure Enrichment doesn't seem to have too many of these complaints, though. Pure Enrichment is compact and aesthetically pleasing. But that doesn't usually matter as much as the run time, which is a light 6 hours per 16.9-ounce water bottle. At $30, we expected this humidifier to have a longer misting time but included it as an option for those dedicated to finding a water bottle-based model. The biggest concern with this portable humidifier is its light. It can't be turned off and reviewers have complained it's simply too bright -- especially for a bedroom. See at Pure Enrichment Sonifun, $16 Sonifun looks and acts a lot like Dewy, but for half the price. What you give up with that $20 difference is a slightly better design and 2 hours of continuous mist time. Not bad. Sonifun uses ultrasonic technology and is powered by USB, letting you power the unit with a laptop, a USB port in a car or any USB charging brick. The ultrasonic humidifier comes with one cotton tube (which acts like a filter) -- one already in the device and a replacement one in the box. A five-pack of additional filters costs $11. Finally, you have three color options: pink, white and gray. It also includes an LED light that can display a variety of color, but -- thankfully -- that feature can be disabled so it won't interrupt a good night's sleep. See at Amazon Read more: The best facial sunscreens for 2020 Best travel bags and backpacks for 2018 38 Photos Now playing: Watch this: Travelling 2,600 miles across Europe in a VW camper 28:48 Originally published earlier. The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Health and Wellness Travel Notification on Notification off Small Appliances Close Discuss: Best portable humidifiers for dry skin, sinus relief and sore throats in 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.