https://www.cnet.com/news/windows-10-nov-2019-update-everything-you-need-to-know/
Windows 10 April 2020 update: Everything you need to know - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Windows 10 April 2020 update: Everything you need to know Windows 10 2004 (that's the version number) will take only minutes to install and includes useful new features. Here's how to get it early. Alison DeNisco Rayome February 20, 2020 9:54 AM PST The Windows 10 April 2020 Update is expected to roll out in the spring. SOPA Images Microsoft expects to release the Windows 10 April 2020 Update this spring, bringing new features to help with productivity and security. The update -- also known as Windows 10 versions 2004 and 20H1 -- follows Microsoft's usual update schedule but will bring more big changes than we've seen in other updates in recent years. Read more: How to upgrade to Windows 10 for free Windows 10 is now on more than 900 million devices, Microsoft said in September. Now that support for Windows 7 is officially over, Microsoft is encouraging users to either upgrade their PC to Windows 10 to keep it running smoothly and securely or buy a new computer. Major refreshes to the OS come about every six months, with the most recent being the November 2019 update. Early reports from our sister site ZDNet are that the update -- currently available as a preview release -- takes anywhere from 7 to 17 minutes to install. Here's what we know so far. Read more: The best antivirus protection of 2020 for Windows 10 When will the Windows 10 April 2020 Update be available? For those in the Windows Insider Program, the April 2020 Update has been available as a preview release for about a year. If the update follows Microsoft's typical schedule, the final version should be generally available in early May. If you want access to the preview release now, you can join the Windows 10 Insider Slow Ring, and toggle the Stop Getting Preview Builds option to On. (This allows you to use the current preview and keeps it from being replaced by future ones as they arrive.) Otherwise, you can wait until the update's general release. What new features will version 20H1 include? Windows 10 version 2004 includes a number of changes for users, according to Microsoft, such as: Cortana: Microsoft says Cortana is evolving into a "personal productivity assistant" that can help you use Microsoft 365 apps. Cortana will be undocked from the taskbar, so you can move or resize it like any other app. An improved email feature lets you use Cortana to create emails (for example, you can say, "Send an email to Mary letting her know I'm running late" or "Show me emails from Jeff"). An improved calendar lets you do the same to create and ask about meetings. And Windows lets you use the assistant to open apps and adjust settings like brightness. Search Home: Access four quick searches to your Search Home for easier access: weather, top news, today in history and new movies. Kaomoji: Microsoft adds kaomoji -- like ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ -- to its keyboard shortcut along with other emoji. Virtual desktops: Rename your virtual desktops, instead of getting stuck with the system-issued names like Desktop 1. Automatically open apps: Opt in to a setting to automatically open Universal Windows Platform apps after you restart your machine. Read more: You have a new PC or laptop. Here's how to set it up the best way Will previous versions of Windows 10 still work? Microsoft will end support for Windows 10 1809 (also known as the October 2018 update) Home, Pro, Pro Education and Pro for Workstations editions in May of this year. Enterprise and Education editions support will last until May 2021. You can still use version 1809, but the loss of Microsoft support means you will no longer get important security patches or other updates. Read more: 20 pro tips to make Windows 10 work the way you want (free PDF) (TechRepublic) Do I have to update to version 20H1? Nope. Microsoft recommends that you update, of course, but it's not mandatory -- unless you're about to hit an end-of-service date for the version you're currently running. You can find out more about the update process on our sister site ZDNet. To see which version of Windows 10 you have, go to Settings > System > About and scroll to Windows Specifications, where you'll find the edition and version number. If you have version 1903 (released in May 2019) and want to keep it, you have until December 2020 before support ends. And if you have version 1909 (released in November 2019), you have until May 2021 to update. For more, check out Windows 10 tips and tricks and 6 simple security changes all Windows 10 users need to make. Now playing: Watch this: How to take Windows 10 screenshots 2:04 Dell's CES 2020 prototype PCs will change the way you use your displays 32 Photos Comments CNET Apps Today Computers Microsoft Windows 10 Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: Windows 10 April 2020 update: Everything you need to know Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.