https://www.cnet.com/news/iphone-activated-it-took-at-t-only-39-hours/
iPhone activated: It took AT&T only 39 hours - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In iPhone activated: It took AT&T only 39 hours The good news is that my iPhone is finally activated and it's definitely worth the money. The bad news is that it took AT&T 39 hours to get it done. Declan McCullagh July 2, 2007 12:27 AM PDT The good news is that my iPhone is finally activated and it's definitely worth the money. The bad news is that it took AT&T 39 hours to get it done. SF protester prepares sign before Apple iPhone launch: 'I'm not buying one? What am I, crazy?' No, you're smart to wait until the activation problems are fixed. Declan McCullagh/mccullagh.org I've documented the problems step-by-step, including the magic (and not-so-magic) numbers I called, in this post. Here's our review from my colleagues at CNET Reviews. It's not just me. An unscientific poll shows half of the respondents who bought iPhones had activation problems, blogger Thomas Hawk has recounted his similar woes, and there's a Slashdot thread too. And check out Apple's own discussion forum. Some of the posts that you, our esteemed readers, made to my step-by-step recounting of AT&T's comedy of errors are as depressing as my own experience. One Sprint-to-AT&T switcher said both phones on a family plan had to be activated in sequence before the first one would begin to work. Another one says they've been waiting 31 hours. What remarkably poor planning on the part of whoever designed this activation system. So who's responsible? Nobody outside AT&T and Apple seems to know for certain so far. But I wonder about the role of a New Jersey company called Synchronoss, which has a contract with AT&T to handle the activation. As my colleague Tom Krazit says in this article on Sunday, we haven't been able to reach any of the executives at Synchronoss for comment over the weekend (and it's not for lack of trying). Publicly-traded Synchronoss, oddly, hasn't been very public about its iPhone involvement. One of the few articles was one last week in Investor's Business Daily, which says: "Its software takes care of the process from the time the customer has made the decision to buy to when the transaction is processed and the account is activated on the network." That sounds like a pretty key ingredient in the mix to me. Also, the e-mail updates that iPhone customers received said AT&T in the From: line but were actually, as the headers reveal, sent by Synchronoss. Yahoo Finance discussion boards, and a few investor sites, have talked about buying shares of Synchronoss as a way to capitalize on the iPhone's expected success. I wonder if investors will be a little less optimistic now. Update: We've heard back from Synchronoss. They're "extremely pleased" with the way activation went over the weekend. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: iPhone activated: It took AT&T only 39 hours Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.