https://www.cnet.com/news/rim-adding-more-blackberry-customers-than-expected/
RIM adding more BlackBerry customers than expected - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In RIM adding more BlackBerry customers than expected The BlackBerry is still a hit with the business community despite recent network troubles, and the holiday shopping season was kind to Research In Motion as well. Tom Krazit February 21, 2008 10:32 AM PST Smartphone customers keep flocking to the BlackBerry, and there are signs that it's not just harried executives signing up for service. Research In Motion announced Thursday that it expects to have added 15 percent to 20 percent more subscribers than it initially forecast for its fourth fiscal quarter, which ends next week. The company originally thought it would add a net total of 1.82 million subscribers during the period, but strong holiday sales and the absence of a usual seasonal drop-off are credited with the surge. Long the smartphone of choice for the U.S. businessperson, the BlackBerry is making inroads into the consumer market, and overseas as well. According to Canalys, RIM is the second largest smartphone vendor in the world behind Nokia, having more than doubled shipments of BlackBerrys from the fourth quarter of 2006 to the same period last year. In this country, it has 41 percent of the "smart converged device" market, which isn't exactly a standard term but generally means a phone capable of more than basic texting and browsing. RIM noted that the increased amount of subscribers didn't change its financial guidance for the quarter, which is somewhat interesting. Reuters quoted analysts from UBS who think that means RIM anticipated the surge and built inventory ahead of the period, burning through it as the quarter evolved. It's also important to note that subscribers includes people who don't necessarily buy a BlackBerry handheld, but run the BlackBerry software on other phones. Perhaps more interesting, however, will be the response of RIM's current customers and potential customers to the widespread network outage of last week. The BlackBerry service works remarkably well most of the time, but has a crucial Achilles heel in the form of RIM's network-operations center. If the company has problems there, like it did earlier this month, e-mail to something like 85 percent of the lawyers in the U.S. gets screwed up. In a way, maybe that's not a terrible thing for the rest of us, but it's not good for RIM, and rivals are starting to use that against the BlackBerry. To keep this train rolling, RIM will have to make sure it continues to upgrade its infrastructure in step with its subscriber additions, keep up with the cutting-edge of hardware design, and continue to improve the BlackBerry software. Nokia, Samsung, and Apple don't have to worry about maintaining the Internet. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: RIM adding more BlackBerry customers than expected Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.