https://www.cnet.com/news/union-at-ts-t-mobile-buy-would-create-100000-jobs/
Union: AT&T's T-Mobile buy would create 100,000 jobs - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Union: AT&T's T-Mobile buy would create 100,000 jobs The Communications Workers of America once again defends the deal, chalking up opponents' concerns about lost jobs to "sloppy research." Roger Cheng November 8, 2011 6:41 AM PST The merger between AT&T and T-Mobile USA would create more than 100,000 jobs in the United States, a major telecommunications union said today, again putting its weight behind the deal. The Communications Workers of America said a new analysis has found that the deal, which would combine the second- and fourth-largest U.S. wireless carriers, would create an additional 96,000 jobs, alongside the 5,000 outsourced jobs AT&T has pledged to bring back. The CWA also lashed out at opponents of the deal, noting that their concerns over lost jobs stemmed from "sloppy research and the inability to distinguish between the change in the number of wireline and wireless jobs." The union was specifically targeting a study that was commissioned by Sprint Nextel, and it said the company's arguments are "misguided and misleading." Sprint, meanwhile, fired back, calling the CWA's claims inaccurate and irrelevant. "CWA's filing is meant to distract attention away from the actual issue at hand--the Department of Justice has filed suit to block AT&T's proposed takeover of T-Mobile because it believes the takeover of T-Mobile, which CWA has embraced, will lead to higher prices, fewer choices, and lower-quality products for mobile wireless services," a company spokesman said. Other critics said the CWA's claim isn't new and that it fails to consider the loss to T-Mobile's operations. "CWA is simply trying to reheat stale leftovers," said S. Derek Turner, a director at media reform group Free Press. The CWA, a group that AT&T had locked up before announcing the merger earlier this year, had been an early proponent of the deal. The deal, however, is still in jeopardy, with the U.S. Justice Department, Sprint, and regional carrier C Spire suing to block it. AT&T last week disclosed in a filing that it had pushed back its target to close the deal to the end of the first half of next year, rather than the first quarter. The CWA also said the merger would save or create more jobs than a deal between Sprint and T-Mobile. The union noted that Sprint has slashed its workforce and outsourced many of its operations, including the management of its network to Ericsson. In September, Sprint released a study by David Neumark, a professor at the University of California at Irvine, that debunks AT&T's claims that the deal would create jobs. Instead, the study said AT&T would cut thousands of jobs in order to achieve its target of reducing expenses by $10 billion. The Federal Communications Commission has also expressed concern about the impact that the deal would have on jobs. AT&T has maintained that the deal would have a beneficial effect. It's unclear how much of an impact the CWA's comments will have on the proceedings, particularly the Justice Department lawsuit, which is seen as the critical hurdle for AT&T to pass to get the deal approved. The telecommunications giant has said it is working on a legal defense and a possible out-of-court settlement. Updated at 10:26 a.m. PT: to include a response from Sprint and Free Press. Comments AT&T Sprint T-Mobile Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Union: AT&T's T-Mobile buy would create 100,000 jobs Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.