https://www.cnet.com/news/the-chaos-of-zoom-has-been-a-shining-light-during-the-coronavirus-lockdown/
Zoom has been a chaotic beacon of light during the coronavirus lockdown - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Zoom has been a chaotic beacon of light during the coronavirus lockdown Commentary: More pets. More kids. I beg you. The more chaos the better. Mark Serrels March 25, 2020 6:06 PM PDT Listen - 03:00 The backgrounds have been a journey. CNET Yesterday I was on a Zoom video meeting with my boss when disaster struck. My oldest son -- 7 years old, burdened with a gas tank that never hits empty -- literally ripped our gate from the brick wall it was attached to, after swinging on it vigorously for 10 minutes straight. My 4-year-old, blasting through the front door into my study, gleefully delivered the news in full view of my boss. Smiling like a buffoon, waving at the screen. "DADDY, DADDY! HE BROKE IT! HE BROKE IT!" He screamed. Pleased to not be the one in trouble for once. "Uh, should I ring you back?" asked my boss. "Yeah," I replied, enraged, through gritted teeth. "You might need to give me a minute." We're weeks deep into a coronavirus-inspired lockdown, and for those of us lucky enough to work from home, the way we've been communicating has changed. No more "how was your weekend" by loudly boiling kettles. No more "how about that sports team" by the water cooler. We're all on Zoom now, and I absolutely love it. Sarah Tew/CNET On Wednesday, the New York Times technology section published an article on the dos and dont's of Zoom and promoted it with a (since deleted) tweet stating something to the effect of "we love your kids and pets but please keep them off Zoom." It was a well-intentioned article and a well-intentioned tweet, but Twitter reacted as expected: They did not like it and ratioed it into oblivion. Partly because the internet is notorious for its love of cats and dogs (and partly because the tone was smug and elitist), but mostly because, in these strange times, chaos reigns, and attempting to police the way we communicate on Zoom when everyone's just doing the best they can is insensitive at best. And, personally? I have absolutely been loving the dogs. And the cats. Even the kids. More pets, please. More kids. More chaos. In the weeks since working from home began, I have seen some things. Weird things. I've seen people turn up to Zoom meetings beneath duvet covers built into a childlike fort. I've seen colleagues Zooming from the comfort of their childhood bedrooms, replete with high school photos and decades-old toys. I've been on extensive house tours. I've been introduced to babies, toddlers, husbands and wives I never thought I'd meet. I saw someone's mom trying to moonwalk. I saw a cat on a leash. And it's been wonderful. Absolutely wonderful. It's been one of the few shining lights in an increasingly dark period, and I've learned to lean into it. Coronavirus updates FDA warns at-home coronavirus tests are unauthorized and fraudulent Zoom has been a chaotic beacon of light during the coronavirus lockdown FBI says beware of stimulus-package scams Snowden says government surveillance amid COVID-19 could be long lasting Right now there's a vulnerability and authenticity to the video meetings we're having on Zoom. They go beyond the surface-level conversations we're used to having in workplace settings. We're asking each other how we're doing and we actually care about the answer. The catch-ups I'm having with co-workers are less about editorial plans and upcoming projects and more about how we're dealing with the stress of isolation in a period of complete uncertainty. In that context a dog, or a cat, or a toddler screaming for their parent's attention is a welcome distraction. I've learned more about my colleagues in the last two weeks than I have in the last two years of working in an office setting, and I love it. It sounds twee and needlessly earnest, but I hope that when the dust has settled and things go back to a relative state of normality, we can take this spirit of authenticity and apply it to more traditional workplace settings. Oh, and you'll be pleased to hear that I fixed the gate. Thanks for asking. Our new reality as coronavirus sends the world online 12 Photos Now playing: Watch this: Will coronavirus crash the internet? 4:35 Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Zoom has been a chaotic beacon of light during the coronavirus lockdown Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.