https://www.cnet.com/news/ftc-on-net-neutrality-no-new-laws-needed/
FTC on Net neutrality: No new laws needed - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In FTC on Net neutrality: No new laws needed Commission concludes that there is no need for extensive regulations of the sort that the Republican-controlled Congress considered, and rejected, last year. Declan McCullagh June 28, 2007 6:07 AM PDT The lifelong bureaucrats at the Federal Trade Commission are hardly a bunch of Hayek-quoting, Ron Paul-voting libertarians. Which is why it's worthwhile to note the conclusion that the FTC reached on Wednesday about Net neutrality: No new laws. It took the FTC a mere 169 pages to arrive at that result in its new report on the topic, probably one of the most exhaustive treatments of Net neutrality to date. It concludes: "We recommend that policy makers proceed with caution in evaluating proposals to enact regulation in the area of broadband Internet access." Translated from government-speak, that means there's no need for extensive regulations of the sort that the Republican-controlled Congress considered, and rejected, last year. The Democrats have not tried to resuscitate the legislation this year. The FTC says, sensibly enough: "Industrywide regulatory schemes--particularly those imposing general, one-size-fits-all restraints on business conduct--may well have adverse effects on consumer welfare, despite the good intentions of their proponents." True to form, the FTC isn't recommending a hands-off approach. The staff report notes that it shares antitrust enforcement with the U.S. Justice Department and is "well-equipped to analyze potential conduct and business arrangements involving broadband Internet access." It also says that "current federal consumer protection law" can address deceptive marketing practices by Internet service providers. Commissioner Jon Leibowitz, a Democrat, published what amounts to a dissenting opinion He said that existing antitrust law may not be "adequate to the task" of Internet broadband regulation. The report drew praise from Tim Muris, who was forced to be circumspect while heading the FTC but can speak speak more freely now that he's back teaching at George Mason University's law school in Arlington, Va. "Net neutrality is a meaningless term, lacking a rationale or analytical basis to impose new regulations on the Internet," Muris said. "Some government actions, while seeking to help consumers, harm them instead. As the FTC report today detailed, robust competition and dynamic business models pervade the Internet." In contrast, pro-regulation groups, who would like to see the Federal Communications Commission receive the power to enforce Net neutrality rules, attacked the FTC report. It "falls far short in its analysis of a competitive market and the related issue of Net neutrality," said Public Knowledge, which has pressed Congress to give the FCC that authority. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: FTC on Net neutrality: No new laws needed Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.