https://www.cnet.com/news/how-to-make-good-headphones-sound-great/
How to make good headphones sound great - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In How to make good headphones sound great Think your headphones already sound pretty good? You ain't heard nothing yet, the Schiit Audio Asgard headphone amplifier will make your ears jump for joy! Steve Guttenberg July 13, 2010 7:45 AM PDT This little amp will wake up your ears! Schiit Audio High-end audio can be a rather expensive hobby, but every now and then I stumble across something really amazing that's priced for the real world. The Schiit Audio Asgard headphone amplifier looks and sounds like an overpriced high-end audio component, but it sells for $249! How good is it? Much better sounding than run-of-the-mill headphone amplifiers, the sort designed around inexpensive integrated circuits found in home theater and stereo receivers. The Asgard is a no-holds-barred Class A, single-ended, zero-feedback design. Pardon the audiophile jargon; let's just say the Asgard is built like a serious piece of high-end gear. Look inside and you see individual resistors, capacitors, transistors, etc, configured in a proprietary design by Schiit Audio's founders, Jason Stoddard, formerly of Sumo, and Mike Moffat, formerly of Theta Digital (two pioneering American high-end audio companies). The Asgard's chassis, circuitboard, and power transformer are all sourced from American suppliers, and the amp is built in Newhall, Calif. Oh, and Stoddard, his wife, or Moffat actually listens to each and every Asgard before it leaves the premises. The Asgard's clean lines and elegant proportions strike me as distinctive, I love the look. The brushed, all-metal chassis' fit and finish are excellent, easily on par with high-end electronics that sell for four times the Asgard's price. That's no exaggeration, it's really nicely put together. I mostly listened to the Asgard with my Ayre C-5xe SACD/DVD-Audio player, but you could hook it up to any stereo analog connection. Not much back there, just stereo RCA inputs, power switch, and a power connector. Schiit Audio The amp is fairly compact, and can be placed horizontally or vertically. The chassis measures 9 by 6.75 by 2.25 inches, and it weighs 4 pounds. Accessories include a 3.5 mm to 6.3 mm headphone plug adapter, and a high-quality 3.5mm to male RCA cable adapter. The amp's high-current design makes it suitable for use with all sorts of headphones, rated from 8 to 600 ohms, and it worked perfectly with my favorite Grado, Hifiman, Phiaton, and Sennheiser headphones. A lot of companies toss around phrases like "high-current design," but judging by the amount of heat the Asgard generates, I believe the claim. It runs very warm to the touch, and even so, Jason Stoddard told me the Asgard was built to have a 20-year lifespan, or at least 5 years if left on continuously. How many $249 consumer electronics products can you buy with that sort of life expectancy? The first thing you notice about the Asgard's sound is its clarity, so music seems remarkably alive and realistic. I've demoed "Birth," an excellent-sounding film score on dozens and dozens of reviews, but the Asgard revealed unheard details in the music. The score was recorded at Abbey Road Studios, and I have never been more aware of the studio's acoustic "space," so I was virtually transported to the recording session. The strings sounded more believably natural, every pluck of the harp was perfectly formed, and the low bass passages were so much better-sounding than before. The score also features a lot of large drums, which can sound muddy on a lot of speakers, including some very expensive ones, but the Asgard used with my Grado RS-1 headphone, clarified the sound of each drum hit. Can the Asgard rock? A few minutes listening to the Drive-By Truckers "Live in Austin, TX" CD convinced me the amp had both power and glory. Again, the thing that really surprised me was that I actually preferred the sound of this recording over headphones than my high-end speakers. The band's raw and raucous edge was all there, but it didn't hurt my ears. I next compared the Asgard with Burson Audio's HA-160 headphone amp ($699). The two amps sounded awfully close, but sometimes the HA-160 was a little sweeter, more open, or more refined. The Asgard was definitely better than the HA-160 with my Hifiman HE-5 headphones, because the sound was more dynamically alive. The Asgard was also an especially nice match with my Sennheiser HD-580 headphones. It wasn't great with my Monster Turbine Gold in-ear headphones, but I generally don't like in-ears at home. If you think I've oversold the Asgard after you bought it, send it back. You get 15 days to figure that out. A vacuum-tube headphone amplifier, the Schiit Audio Valhalla ($349) is due next month, and other Schiit Audio products will appear later this year. Schiit Audio is hot! Comments The Audiophiliac Audio Culture Sennheiser Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: How to make good headphones sound great Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.