https://www.cnet.com/news/t-mobile-ceo-im-open-to-deals-with-dish-sprint/
T-Mobile CEO: I'm open to deals with Dish, Sprint - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In T-Mobile CEO: I'm open to deals with Dish, Sprint CEO John Legere tells CNET that over the long term he's intrigued by the different combinations. Roger Cheng July 10, 2013 2:49 PM PDT T-Mobile CEO John Legere at an event in New York. Lori Grunin/CNET T-Mobile CEO John Legere said he'd be open to potential combinations with Dish Network or even rival Sprint. "When I look at the medium to long term, I'm intrigued by Dish's vision," Legere told CNET in an interview Wednesday. T-Mobile is in the midst of a comeback powered by its "Uncarrier" stance of ripping away old carrier conventions such as service contracts. The company today introduced a new program that would allow customers to upgrade their phones as frequently as twice a year. Related stories Coronavirus texting scams: 5 ways to protect yourself on your phone Westworld season 3 gets futuristic gadgets and tech so right T-Mobile adds new $15 Connect plan, free YouTube Premium amid coronavirus Coronavirus transforms peak internet usage into the new normal Galaxy S20 Ultra vs. S10 Plus: Which Samsung phone should you buy? Dish Network has been looking to buy both Sprint and Clearwire, but its hopes were dashed when Sprint swallowed up the shares of Clearwire it didn't already own, and shareholders approved a deal for SoftBank to buy Sprint. With Dish still eager to wed its satellite-TV business with a wireless service, the next logical target would be T-Mobile. Legere said he was interested in some of the capabilities and spectrum that T-Mobile would offer, and that he had a duty to look at any deal on the table that would add value to shareholders. "Strategically, we look at all options," he said. Sprint, meanwhile, was another company that interested him. Regulators had long sought a deal between T-Mobile and Sprint as a possible solution to the increasing consolidation of power by AT&T and Verizon Wireless. SoftBank had reportedly looked at T-Mobile as a possible Plan B in case Sprint went to Dish. Sprint got a lot of shout-outs during T-Mobile's presentation, but nothing flattering. T-Mobile executives mocked the slow rollout of Sprint's 4G LTE network, and noted the slower 3G speeds that most customers were stuck with. But Legere noted that Sprint's deal with SoftBank could put the company in a powerful position. However, he doesn't see that happening until 2015. "When we look at the medium to long term, we don't know what the industry structure looks like," he said. Comments Phones Clearwire Dish Network SoftBank Sprint T-Mobile Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: T-Mobile CEO: I'm open to deals with Dish, Sprint Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.