https://www.cnet.com/news/qualcomms-new-5g-vrar-headset-tech-looks-like-a-superpowered-oculus-quest/
New details on Qualcomm's 5G VR prototypes: Cloud rendering, eye tracking, high-res displays - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In New details on Qualcomm's 5G VR prototypes: Cloud rendering, eye tracking, high-res displays The first Snapdragon 5G VR headsets and AR goggles are coming soon, according to Qualcomm Scott Stein February 25, 2020 10:00 AM PST Listen - 03:50 Qualcomm's 5G VR and AR reference designs: 5G headsets could arrive later this year. Qualcomm Standalone VR headsets like last year's Oculus Quest are impressive, but the next generation of hardware that looks to push far past that. Blazing-fast 5G networks are what new smartphones are using to show off crazy download speeds, and the potential on future VR and AR headsets is even greater. Qualcomm has some new details on its 5G VR reference designs, showing off a VR/AR future that's 5G-enabled, but it could be another year or more before seeing the impact in something you'd actually want to buy. Qualcomm makes nearly all of the chips that power current standalone VR and AR headsets (like the Quest or Microsoft's HoloLens 2). Previous Qualcomm reference design VR prototypes have predicted where things would go next, and it's likely that the company's new 5G VR headset will build on those upcoming features: eye tracking, 5G and a blending of AR into VR using a variety of external cameras are some of its tricks. I tried an early version of this headset last year, testing an app made by telepresence software company Spatial. The finalized hardware uses Qualcomm's extremely fast XR2 chip, an VR/AR-optimized version of the Snapdragon 865 that's in this year's newest flagship Android phones (like the Samsung Galaxy S20). Cloud rendering of graphics could mean that future VR goggles and smartglasses shrink down and need less powerful phones or PCs nearby in order to connect. Standalone VR and AR headsets with 5G are coming, and Qualcomm's reference design lays out specs and expectations for where other manufacturers could go by the end of this year or in 2021. This next wave of VR/AR headsets are expected to start arriving by midyear from some manufacturers, but some of these could be less expensive "XR viewers" that plug into phones, instead of stand-alone headsets. Devices like HTC's Project Proton could be a hint of headsets that bridge the gap between phone-connected and stand-alone. Specs: Lots of cameras, higher-res displays The headset reference design, seen below, looks a lot like other stand-alone VR goggles. Qualcomm plans to split focus into two directions: VR headsets that have passthrough cameras that mix reality into VR (like HTC's upcoming Cosmos XR, or the expensive Varjo XR-1), and AR headsets with see-through visors, like the HoloLens 2 or Magic Leap. Goertek is the manufacturer spinning off variations on the reference design for Qualcomm, using full motion 6DoF (six degrees of freedom) hand controllers made by NDI. These headsets will all have built-in eye tracking by Tobii, a feature expected to be on many VR/AR headsets going forward, which also occasionally shows up in gaming laptops. Qualcomm's reference design headsets have 2Kx2K pixel resolution per eye, but that's apparently due to current display resolution availability. Qualcomm's XR2 chip can handle up to 3Kx3K per eye, according to Qualcomm XR chief Hugo Swart. The reference design headsets works over 5G via both mmWave and sub-6 GHz networks, and will be able to render graphics in the cloud or connect wirelessly over 60GHz with PCs. Now playing: Watch this: What your future VR/AR goggles could do with Qualcomm's... 3:47 How much will they cost, though? Despite the push for 5G, the technology will actually be optional on many of the upcoming VR/AR headsets using Qualcomm's new chip. It's likely many headsets will skip 5G to save money, or opt for lighter, cheaper headsets that can plug into phones for 5G, like the upcoming $499 NReal Light glasses. It's also not clear what future 5G VR/AR headsets could cost, but Qualcomm's labeling of the XR2 chip as "premium" could hint at costs significantly higher than Facebook's $400 Oculus Quest. Qualcomm was initially going to demonstrate this 5G hardware at Mobile World Congress, the tech conference that was cancelled due to COVID-19 concerns. "I'm still confident on having XR2 products come out this year, but we'll have to continuously monitor and see if there's any further impact on it," Qualcomm's Swart commented in relation to the coronavirus. Mobile World Congress 2020 See All • reading New details on Qualcomm's 5G VR prototypes: Cloud rendering, eye tracking, high-res displays • Mar 12 I got a peek at what your 5G-enabled AR home office could look like • Feb 27 LG's V60 ThinQ phone sees double in blue and white • Feb 26 Hands-on LG V60 ThinQ: 5G with 8K video and dual-screen Comments Mobile World Congress 2020 Computers Gaming Virtual Reality Apps Qualcomm 5G Virtual Reality Augmented reality (AR) HTC Microsoft Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: New details on Qualcomm's 5G VR prototypes: Cloud rendering, eye tracking, high-res displays Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.