https://www.cnet.com/news/take-a-tour-of-abbey-road-studios/
Take a tour of Abbey Road Studios - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Take a tour of Abbey Road Studios A tour around the historic, epic, and incredible Abbey Road Studios. Geoffrey Morrison September 17, 2013 2:00 PM PDT Geoffrey Morrison/CNET On a recent trip to London, I got a chance to tour storied speaker company B&W's factory. They asked if I'd also like to tour Abbey Road Studios. Yes. Yes I would. And I did. It was awesome and I have pictures. This is the first of three behind-the-scenes tours I did on my recent UK trip. Also check out storied speaker company B&W's factory, and electronics and speaker manufacturer Meridian Audio. Abbey Road is probably the most famous recording studio in the world. The artists who've recorded there reads like a who's who of the great acts of the 20th and 21st centuries: The Beatles, Pink Floyd, Adele, Queen, Oasis, Radiohead, and many more. The zebra crossing in front was immortalized by Iain Macmillan for the cover of the Beatles album that gave the studio its name. Abbey Road Studios Tour (pictures) 22 Photos What's shocking, perhaps, is that for a building with such an incredible musical history, it doesn't look like much from the outside. In fact, it looks like a pretty boring and basic house, which of course it was originally. It is amusingly bigger on the inside, extending back throughout the lot. Inside is one of the largest recording spaces in the world (Studio One), along with the iconic Studio Two (where the Beatles recorded most of their catalog), and the smaller but no less important Studio Three (Pink Floyd's home for "Dark Side of the Moon" and others). Narrow corridors, stairwells, and tiny rooms fill out the interstitial spaces, and in many, magic happened as well as artists pushing the boundaries of what was technically possible, used every space they could to get the sound in their head, onto the rolling magnetic tape. Check out the gallery for the full tour. Hannah Boan My thanks to B&W for setting this up, and to David Allen for his fantastic and informative tour. Got a question for Geoff? First, check out all the other articles he's written on topics like HDMI cables, LED LCD vs. plasma, active vs. passive 3D, and more. Still have a question? Send him an e-mail! He won't tell you what TV to buy, but he might use your letter in a future article. You can also send him a message on Twitter @TechWriterGeoff or Google+. Comments Home Entertainment Audio Culture Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Take a tour of Abbey Road Studios Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.