https://www.cnet.com/news/best-holiday-gifts-under-500-for-2019/
Best holiday gifts under $500 for 2019 - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best holiday gifts under $500 for 2019 Feeling generous? Here's a handful of choices for one lucky recipient. David Katzmaier December 9, 2019 2:00 PM PST Leer en español Sarah Tew/CNET Don't look now but the holidays are almost upon us. And while it's easy to come up with a cheap last-minute gift, you'll want to take some time to decide on the perfect tech gadget when you're feeling generous. And by generous, we mean something in the $250 to $500 range. Now playing: Watch this: The tech gifts mom really wants this year 5:19 Here are a few ideas, from the obvious (game consoles and iPads) to the not-so-much (security cameras and a revolutionary breast pump). Read More: Best gifts under $25 Best gifts under $50 Best gifts under $100 Best gifts under $250 Best gifts at any price Nintendo Switch V2 Simply the coolest console on the planet Sarah Tew/CNET Nintendo's massively popular platform may have a newer, cheaper entry in the Switch Lite at $200, but the original also got a minor improvement this year in the V2 version with improved battery life. The big difference between the two? The Switch Lite is strictly portable, without the big-screen TV dockability and detachable controllers that make the V2 so unique. We break down the differences here; the main thing to know is we still consider the V2 the best overall choice. Just make sure you're getting the new Switch, not the old one. See at Amazon Apple iPad (10.2-inch, 2019) The newest iPad The new version of Apple's flagship iPad just came out September, increasing the display size to 10.2 inches and adding a dock connector for new smart keyboards. Otherwise it's pretty much the same as the 9.7-inch version that came out last year, making that slightly older iPad an arguably better deal since it's often available for $250 or less. But if you just want to get your recipient the best iPad under $500, this is the one. Read our Apple iPad 10.2-inch 2019 review. $329 at Apple $330 at Best Buy $329 at B&H Photo-Video Dyson Cyclone V10 Absolute Truly powerful cordless vac Tyler Lizenby/CNET This thing really sucks, in a good way. Dyson's most powerful cordless vac yet costs more than your average dust buster, but its combination of power and convenience could be worth it for the neat freak on your list. Compared with the original V8 the battery lasts longer and the chamber empties from the front, not the bottom, to better prevent spills around the trash can. Read CNET's Dyson V10 preview. See at Amazon TCL 55S525 Super streaming at 55 inches Sarah Tew/CNET No, you can't get a truly high-performance TV for less than $500, but you can get one with a nice-size screen and the best streaming system available for $300 (or maybe less when you read this). In our review the S425 had "just OK" image quality. But if that's fine for you, its excellent app access thanks to the built-in Roku makes for a tremendous bargain. Read the TCL 55S425 review. See at Amazon Read more: Best TVs in 2019 Yamaha YAS-209 Pump up TV sound with Alexa's help Sarah Tew/CNET So maybe your gift recipients already have a nice TV, but they're stuck listening to its terrible built-in speakers. A soundbar is the easiest way to fix that problem, and this Yamaha was our favorite in this price range. As a bonus it also works with Alexa, so you can ask Amazon's voice assistant to play your tunes even when the TV is turned off. Read the Yamaha YAS-209 review. See at Amazon HP Chromebook x2 Sweet 2-in-1 Sarah Tew/CNET This convertible Chromebook's ability to seamlessly switch from computer to tablet mode makes it stand out among cheaper competitors. Our reviewer loved its comfortable keyboard, its display and its peppy performance. And the included stylus makes it an even better bargain. Read our HP Chromebook x2 review. See at Amazon Netgear Arlo Pro-2 (two-camera system) Do-it-all security Chris Monroe/CNET The sheer flexibility of the Arlo Pro 2 is what sets this system apart from the pack. The weatherproof design makes the cameras suited for indoor or outdoor use, they can run on battery power for up to six months and they're easy to install just about anywhere. Alexa and Google Assistant compatibility seal the deal. Read the Arlo Pro 2 review. See at Amazon Willow Wearable Breast Pump 2.0 A nursing mom's best friend Claire Reilly/CNET Willow changed the way mothers feed their babies with the first all-in-one, hide-it-inside-your-bra, wearable breast pump. Sure it costs a lot more than many other options, but the convenience and freedom of go-anywhere pumping are well worth it for moms on the go. CNET's Bridget Carey says, "I can pump while playing with my kids, getting ready for work, cooking dinner or other tasks -- it takes away the fear of not being able to provide for my baby when time is in such short supply." Read Bridget's take. See at Willow Cocktail table Pac-Man retro console Sit down to get your chomp on Best Buy/Arcade1Up Sure, you could get that lucky giftee one of Arcade1Up's classic stand-up machines, but nothing beats the nostalgia of sitting in a chair, drink comfortably in place, while you chase the latest high score. Two sets of controls face one another across a 17-inch screen that lets you play any one of eight games. In addition to the original Pac-Man, you get Pac-Man Plus, Pac & Pal, Pac-Mania, Super Pac-Man and Pac-Land, along with Galaga and Dig Dug. Tragically missing from the collection, however, is Ms. Pac-Man. Read the Pac-Man cocktail table preview. See at Best Buy Gifts under $500: What to give when you're feeling generous 12 Photos CNET Holiday Gift Guide 2019 Holiday gift guide 2019: CNET editors' top picks Stocking stuffers: Best tech gifts under $25 Best holiday gifts for under $50 Best holiday gifts under $100 for 2019 Best holiday gifts under $250 for 2019 Best holiday gifts under $500 for 2019 Comments TVs Gadgets Smart Home Appliances Consoles Laptops Gaming Walmart Amazon Best Buy Dyson Nintendo Apple Netgear Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Best holiday gifts under $500 for 2019 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.