https://www.cnet.com/news/fcc-approves-verizonalltel-merger-after-delay/
FCC approves Verizon/Alltel merger after delay - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In FCC approves Verizon/Alltel merger after delay The FCC delayed its meeting for more than four hours to negotiate conditions for its approval of the Verizon Wireless acquisition of Alltel. Marguerite Reardon November 4, 2008 2:06 PM PST The Federal Communications Commission approved the $28 billion acquisition between Verizon Wireless and Alltel on Tuesday after a four hour delay in which commissioners negotiated terms of the deal. The meeting was supposed to start at 11 a.m. EST. But didn't actually get under way until nearly 4 p.m. EST. The delay was attributed to discussions among commissioners and Verizon to hammer out a deal that satisfied concerns over roaming conditions put on the deal. During the meeting, the two Democratic commissioners on the FCC, Michael Copps and Jonathan Adelstein, expressed concern that combining Verizon and Alltel will limit the number of roaming partners that smaller carriers in rural markets could work with. And as a result, they say this will limit competition and drive up prices for consumers. As part of a compromise, Verizon agreed to keep its roaming rates the same for the next four years. Verizon Wireless, which is jointly owned by Verizon Communications and Vodafone, announced its plan to buy regional operator Alltel earlier this year, in a deal that will make it the largest wireless operator in the U.S. The phone company won approval for the deal from the U.S. Department of Justice last week. The FCC had also been expected to approve the merger. But like the Justice Department, which is requiring Verizon to sell off assets in 22 states, the FCC was also expected to put its own conditions on the merger. In addition to keeping roaming rates the same, the FCC is also requiring Verizon to divest service in a total of 100 markets. It is also requiring e911 accuracy and Universal Service Fund contributions. The FCC's original agenda for the November 4 meeting had been packed full. But over the past two days, the FCC has managed to whittle down the agenda, approving three minor issues and tabling one controversial issue. Of the original seven agenda items, only three remain, including an item that deals with opening up "white space" spectrum for unlicensed use. For more on the FCC meeting, check back later when more updates will be posted. Comments Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: FCC approves Verizon/Alltel merger after delay Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.