https://www.cnet.com/news/e3-2007-microsoft-kicks-off-the-e3-press-conference-season/
E3 2007: Microsoft kicks off the E3 press conference season - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In E3 2007: Microsoft kicks off the E3 press conference season Microsoft fires the first shot in the always amusing press conference wars by hosting its annual event late Tuesday evening. Dan Ackerman July 11, 2007 9:20 AM PDT While the main portion of the E3 Summit kicks off on Wednesday, Microsoft has fired the first shot in the always amusing press conference wars by hosting its annual event late Tuesday evening. Master Chief, ready to finish the fight. Packing journalists and analysts into a Santa Monica high school outdoor auditorium was an unusual choice, to be sure. The company put on their typical high-gloss presentation, which is traditionally the best stage-managed of the big three (the other two being Sony and Nintendo), which probably says more about the button-down Microsoft corporate culture than anything else. With a live band, smoke machines, and an actual man-made lake at the floor of the stage, it was a small taste of classic E3 excess. Even though the Xbox 360 is the oldest current-generation game console on the market, Microsoft put its best foot forward, touting carefully parsed sales figures and the system's genuinely large software selection. Microsoft VP Peter Moore led the audience through a series of slides showing the 360 hardware outselling the PS3 by a margin of two-to-one, and showing how the 380 is responsible for more game sales than the PS3 and Wii combined. Most of the highlights concerned high-profile upcoming games, including: Halo 3: The third installment in this popular sci-fi first-person shooter. Xbox 360 exclusive. Mass Effect: Sci-fi RPG, from the same team behind the Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic games. Xbox 360 exclusive. Lost Odyssey: Fantasy themed Japanese-style RPG. Xbox 360 exclusive. Rock Band: EA's answer to Guitar Hero, complete with drums, guitar, bass and a microphone. Officially debuted at the Microsoft press conference, although leaked gameplay footage has been going around for some time. For Xbox, PS3 and possibly Wii. BioShock: Eagerly awaited action/adventure. Exclusive to Xbox 360 and PC. Call of Duty 4: Modern update to the WWII shooter, exclusive to Xbox 360 and PC. Assassin's Creed: Buzz-heavy stealth/action game about a Crusades-era assassin. Microsoft's Peter Moore and friends demo Rock Band. All these titles are set for retail release by the end of 2007. Moore pointed to an industry prediction that Halo 3, along with the upcoming Grand Theft Auto IV and Madden 2008, could account for one-third of all holiday game sales. All three games will be available on 360, but only Halo 3 is a console exclusive. On the hardware side, we saw the new Halo 3 edition Xbox 360, which seemed like a standard 20GB Xbox 360, done up in Spartan Green, the official Halo color. Also revealed was a new handheld controller with one giant button (and four small ones) that will come bundled with am Xbox version of the family-friendly board game Scene It? -- but the less said about that, the better (at least judging from the dead silence that greeted its announcement). Reggie Bush demos Madden 2008. Xbox Live, the most mature of the game console online platforms, has hit 7 million members and will include new downloadable content from Disney, starting immediately, plus further integration with Windows Live, allowing for cross-platform PC/Xbox play in select titles. So far, the PC version of Live has failed to excite PC gamers, who are generally aghast at paying for online multiplayer gaming--traditionally free for them. As a final treat, Microsoft ran a short trailer for the only game featured that won't be available this year--Resident Evil 5, by Capcom, followed by an extended look at Halo 3, which inspired the best line we heard all night. As the Halo 3 slogan "Finish the Fight" flashed onscreen, one attendee, worn out from hours of sitting on a thin foam pad on the concrete bleachers, mumbled, "Finish the fight? How about finish the press conference?" Comments Crave Gaming Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: E3 2007: Microsoft kicks off the E3 press conference season Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.