https://www.cnet.com/news/sony-halts-sales-of-ps3-jailbreak/
Sony halts sales of PS3 jailbreak - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Sony halts sales of PS3 jailbreak Australian court orders resellers there to temporarily halt presales of PS Jailbreak, a USB dongle that would allow PlayStation 3 owners to dump borrowed games onto the system's hard drive. Leslie Katz August 27, 2010 12:01 PM PDT Not so fast PS3 jailbreakers. Sony has succeeded, at least Down Under, in temporarily halting presales of a USB dongle that would allow PlayStation 3 owners to dump borrowed games onto the system's hard drive. Quantronics A federal court in Australia on Thursday ordered electronics retailers in the country to stop sales and distribution of the dongle called PS Jailbreak, which we told you about last week. Court documents indicate the injunction will remain in place until a hearing scheduled for Tuesday that could determine the permanent fate of the modchip in Australia, and have consequences for the device in other countries, as well. Australian retailer Quantronics, one of three respondents named in court documents filed by Sony Computer Entertainment Europe and Sony Computer Entertainment Australia, currently lists the $170 product as "no stock," but details on the PS3 modchip remain on the site. Earlier, reports the site PS3News, Quantronics posted a notice stating it would not: • Import the PS Jailbreak • Distribute the PS Jailbreak • Offer the dongle for sale to the public • Provide it to another person • Otherwise deal with the product "Unless a continuation of orders or permanent injunction is granted to Sony Computer Entertainment, this product page will be returned and sales will resume on the 31st August 2010," the site said. That notice no longer appeared on the site at the time of this writing. The site PSJailbreak.com, meanwhile, did not mention the Australian court order on Friday. It lists distributors around the world, including the three Australian outfits named in the court documents. In addition to Quantronics, they are OzModChips.com and ModSupplier.com. Thursday's court order also gives Sony permission to collect and test all dongles in the firms' possession. The PS3 runs the software on the PS Jailbreak when the dongle is inserted into the console's USB port and booted. Besides the ability to copy and play games from the hard drive, the jailbreak is said to allow non-Sony-approved software, including homebrew apps, to run. Even online gaming is supported, and early reports stated that games running from the hard drive run faster than the same games from the optical disc drive. The hack was scheduled to ship Friday, August 27. "We will not be providing further commentary with regards to this case," Sony Computer Entertainment said in a statement Monday. "However, as we always have, we will continue to take necessary actions from both hardware and software to protect the intellectual property of the content offered on the PS3 system." Update, Monday at 11:20 a.m. PDT: A comment from Sony has been added to the story. Comments Crave Gadgets Gaming Hacking Jailbreak Sony Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Sony halts sales of PS3 jailbreak Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.