https://www.cnet.com/news/path-ceo-vows-stricter-protection-of-user-data/
Path CEO vows stricter protection of user data - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Path CEO vows stricter protection of user data Dave Morin says the next release of its app will do a better job of ensuring user privacy. Paul Sloan March 8, 2012 2:35 PM PST Path founder Dave Morin CNET,James Martin SAN FRANCISCO--Path, which found itself as the target of outrage last month after it was discovered that its app was absorbing users' address books without notifying them, is promising to "hash" personal data it uses in the next release of its app. The issue came up at a gathering at Path's headquarters in which it rolled out version 2.1 of its popular app. Dave Morin, the CEO and founder, said that he handled the controversy as best he could. He said Path is working with Truste, a third-party certification company. "We did what we thought was the best thing to do--be transparent and apologize and make a change," said Morin. "We went further and deleted all the data." Still, he said the startup would do more. "We will do hashing of the data," he said. "We're very committed. We care a lot." He didn't defend what happened but stressed that "we're in the nascent days of mobile social." He didn't say when Path would release the next update. Related stories Want smarter outdoor lighting at home? Here are your options Goodbye to tech that died in 2018 Marvel's Daredevil season 3 teased in cryptic audio-only Instagram posts The Path controversy quickly spread as it came to light that many apps take in address books to help connect and add users. The issue soon caught the attention of lawmakers, and led Apple to say that it would enforce its policy, which requires app makers to notify users when its taking personal information. Ultimately, the privacy mess did nothing to hurt Path's business. While Morin said a "small number of users" asked Path to deactivate their accounts--at that time, a users couldn't do that on their own--the company has steadily been adding users. Since it released Path 2.0 in November, Morin said more than 2 million people have become members. Comments Internet Mobile Privacy Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Path CEO vows stricter protection of user data Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.