https://www.cnet.com/news/microsofts-first-quarter-a-blowout/
Microsoft's first quarter: A blowout - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Microsoft's first quarter: A blowout The software maker said it got off to a fast start in the first quarter, with revenue up 27 percent from a year ago. Ina Fried October 25, 2007 4:32 PM PDT Updated 2:00 p.m. Microsoft reported a strong jump in first quarter revenue and earnings on Thursday, as the company benefited from Windows Vista and the launch of Halo 3. The software maker said it took in $4.29 billion in profits, or 45 cents per share, on revenue of $13.76 billion for the three months ending September 30. As for Vista, the company said it saw double-digit growth in multi-year agreements by businesses and saw "the vast majority" of consumers opting for a premium version of the operating system. "This fiscal year is off to an outstanding start with the fastest revenue growth of any first quarter since 1999," CFO Chris Liddell said in a statement. "Operating income growth of over 30 percent also reflects our ability to translate revenue into profits while making strategic investments for the future." For the current quarter, Microsoft said that its revenue is expected to be in the range of $15.6 billion to $16.1 billion, with per-share earnings of 44 cents to 46 cents. For the full fiscal year, Microsoft said to expect revenue in the range of $58.8 billion to $59.7 billion, with per-share earnings of around $1.78 to $1.81. Update: In an interview, Microsoft investor relations general manager Colleen Healy noted that the company has lifted its revenue guidance for the year by more than $2 billion as the company has seen positive reactions to the products introduced in the past nine months. "It's fantastic to see these products are off to a good start... because they will have a multi-year impact," Healy said. Microsoft saw particularly strong results in the Windows client business, where revenue grew 25 percent in the quarter. That was aided by overall strong PC sales as well as gains the company made in reducing piracy rates. Healy said that reduction in piracy rates accounted for about 5 percentage points of the the growth. Buoyed by the launch of Halo 3, Microsoft saw a 90 percent increase in revenue for its Entertainment and Devices unit, which also swung to profitability in the quarter. Healy said that Microsoft sold 1.8 million Xbox 360 consoles in the quarter, but declined to give a forecast for the holiday quarter, citing competitive concerns. The company is still aiming to have the unit profitable for the full fiscal year, Healy said. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Microsoft's first quarter: A blowout Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.