https://www.cnet.com/news/i-got-a-peek-of-what-your-5g-enabled-ar-office-could-look-like/
I got a peek at what your 5G-enabled AR home office could look like - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In I got a peek at what your 5G-enabled AR home office could look like Minus the 5G part, that is. Spatial's collaborative avatar app shows the promises, and challenges, of the virtual remote-work future. Scott Stein March 12, 2020 6:57 AM PDT Listen - 02:50 Sitting down, bringing up holographic coworkers, wearing phone-connected Nreal AR glasses. Spatial's working on 5G connectivity soon. Spatial Standing in a holographic office space half-layered into the real room I was in, back in February, I lifted my hand to a wall full of faces of myself, pulled from Google. I dragged one across the room to where a group of people stood -- some real and standing with me, others were avatars. Dragging my finger across a phone screen like a touchpad, I controlled the virtual things hanging in space that I saw through the augmented reality glasses I had on. It's a rough experience, but one that shows some weird potential. If we're facing a future where we work from home more and telecommute, will AR like this be a part of it? Did I see a preview of our VR/AR coworking future, or a demonstration of the roadblocks? Now playing: Watch this: Are you ready to bring your augmented reality office... 3:31 The compact AR glasses, made by Nreal, have surprisingly good resolution but didn't fit my prescription (I had to hold them up to my face). And using the connected LG phone as a touchpad was a bit rough at times, sometimes not tracking movement that well. But it worked, letting me collaborate with other people in the room wearing a HoloLens 2 and working on laptops and phones. Eventually, this is supposed to run on a 5G network. I haven't gotten to try that part out yet. Holographic high-five. Spatial AR, for all its promises, doesn't have many killer apps yet. Meanwhile, 5G networks are barely on their feet, and not yet ready to help AR hardware do processing in the cloud that will make smart glasses, in theory, work anywhere. And if we're all going to be wearing AR smart glasses in our interconnected 5G future, we'll need to have a good reason. Is this is the answer to WFH challenges we're all facing now? Is office work going to work via digital telepresence? What I saw a month ago felt like the first baby steps. Spatial, a collaborative telepresence software company whose apps I've tried before, are partnering with AR glasses maker Nreal, Qualcomm (which makes the chips in most mobile AR/VR glasses, as well as most phones) and a variety of international 5G carriers (LG Uplus, KDDI and Deutsche Telekom), to try to make its flexible multiplatform collaborative app work in offices, or anywhere. The lower-cost Nreal glasses I tried are an early indicator of a wave of USB-C-connected, phone-tethered glasses that Qualcomm is powering with its latest chips. Googling myself. Spatial The semi-virtual office I experienced at Spatial's downtown New York offices with Nreal's glasses was just an early prototype, and there's still a lot that needs ironing out. But I got to see something that worked on a $500 headset and phone that seemed to work, in some ways, as well as a pricier HoloLens. My demo was done over Wi-Fi, not 5G, but 5G should make the early experience I tried work even more smoothly. Besides 5G networks providing low latency and cloud rendering to prevent the prototype phone I held from overheating (which it did), the other thing phone-connected AR headsets need is software that works easily. Google and Apple don't make it easy for plug-and-play AR headsets to use apps on phones, but maybe iOS and Android will eventually work support for headsets into their OSes to make that inevitable fusion smoother. I had to hold the glasses up a bit (prescription lenses forthcoming). Spatial Spatial is trying to pave a road for multiplatform AR/VR that's not really here yet, and it's fascinating to try it out. We all stood over a 3D map of Mars while we dragged a rover onto it. We scribbled notes to each other. Our positions in space could be viewed remotely, or saved like a 3D recording of our avatars, interacting. It's also a work in progress. It feels like a collaborative future with training wheels on. I'm curious to see it become a lot more unleashed... but I'm not sure what the timeframe on that will be. Mobile World Congress 2020 See All • reading I got a peek at what your 5G-enabled AR home office could look like • Feb 27 LG's V60 ThinQ phone sees double in blue and white • Feb 26 Hands-on LG V60 ThinQ: 5G with 8K video and dual-screen • Feb 25 New details on Qualcomm's 5G VR prototypes: Cloud rendering, eye tracking, high-res displays Comments Mobile World Congress 2020 Wearable Tech Qualcomm 5G Augmented reality (AR) Google LG Microsoft Apple Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: I got a peek at what your 5G-enabled AR home office could look like Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.