https://www.cnet.com/news/google-vs-verizon-the-open-access-saga-continues/
Google vs. Verizon: The 'open access' saga continues - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Google vs. Verizon: The 'open access' saga continues Verizon Wireless' objections to rules requiring soon-to-be-auctioned wireless spectrum to be open to all mobile devices are anti-consumer, Google says. Anne Broache September 14, 2007 7:41 AM PDT First with Net neutrality and now with so-called "open access" rules for forthcoming wireless networks, there seems to be no end to the discord between Google and Verizon. The latest evidence of tensions surfaced when Verizon Wireless this week quietly filed a petition asking a federal appeals court in Washington to "review" rules set to apply to an auction next January of the coveted 700-megahertz wireless spectrum. Earlier this summer, the Federal Communications Commission decreed that consumers must be allowed to use whichever mobile devices or applications they please on about a third of that chunk. A number of consumer groups and Google had wanted even more stringent conditions, such as requiring the winning bidders to make their spectrum available at reasonable wholesale prices, but the majority of commissioners didn't agree that the mandate was appropriate. But even the less comprehensive rules drew vocal disappointment from the U.S. wireless-access industry, which had argued that the auction would best serve American consumers and raise more money if carried out with "no strings attached." Excerpt from Verizon Wireless' appeals court petition Now attorneys for Verizon have escalated that "disappointment" to court action. In a brief filing dated Monday but not reported until Thursday by various news outlets, they charged that the FCC's action exceeded its authority, was "arbitrary, capricious, unsupported by substantial evidence and otherwise contrary to law," and even violated the U.S. Constitution. (Verizon representatives declined to elaborate further on the claims, saying they'd let the filing speak for itself.) Google was quick to bite back, attempting to portray its potential rival in the bidding process as anti-consumer. "The FCC's auction rules are designed to allow U.S. consumers--for the first time--to use their handsets with any network they desire, and download and use the lawful software applications of their choice," Chris Sacca, the company's head of special initiatives, wrote in a Thursday afternoon blog entry. "It's regrettable that Verizon has decided to use the court system to try to prevent consumers from having any choice of innovative services." It remains to be seen how--or if--the continued sniping will affect Google's own planned forays into the mobile sphere. The company recently announced a partnership with Sprint Nextel to integrate its mobile services into a new 4G WiMax network, and it already has struck deals with large mobile providers in Asia and Europe, such as Vodafone and China Mobile. But Google Mobile project manager Sumit Agarwal admitted at the time that U.S. carriers have been more hesitant to embrace the company as a partner. It seems possible that what appears to be fundamental divide over "open" network rules could prove a sticking point--that is, if it hasn't already. Update at 7:35 a.m. PDT: As for whether the Verizon petition will go anywhere, it's too early to tell, based on the company's thin filing, said Blair Levin, managing director of analysis firm Stifel Nicolaus and onetime chief of staff to an FCC chairman during the Clinton administration. He said that although some judges in the D.C. Circuit have "not seemed to want to give much deference to the FCC" in the past, it's impossible to predict what will happen without knowing exactly who will be assigned to the case. "It's probably appropriate to say the FCC always starts off with an advantage, as the expert agency," he said in a telephone interview. "I think that until you see a lot more, placing odds on this, one way or the other, is foolhardy." Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Google vs. Verizon: The 'open access' saga continues Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.