https://www.cnet.com/news/best-tablets-for-2020-ipad-surface-pro-fire-galaxy/
Best tablets for 2020 - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best tablets for 2020 With rumors of new iPad and Surface tablets coming soon, here are your top tablet options. Scott Stein, Alexandra Garrett March 5, 2020 4:00 AM PST Leer en español The latest iPad (10.2-inch, 7th generation, 2019) An obvious affordable choice Jump to details $329 at Amazon iPad Mini (2019) Expensive, but the best smaller tablet Jump to details $399 at Apple iPad Pro (2018) The best iPad, but... Jump to details $674 at Amazon Amazon Fire 7 (2019) The most affordable tablet Jump to details $50 at Amazon Amazon Fire HD 10 (2019) A better but still low-cost Amazon tablet Jump to details See at Amazon Microsoft Surface Pro 6 Laptop-tablet that's often on sale Jump to details See at Amazon Samsung Galaxy Tab S6 One of the last good Android tablet options Jump to details See at Amazon HP Chromebook X2 Chromebook that's also a tablet Jump to details See at Amazon Show more (3 items) The range of tablets available shrunk last year as Google backed off Android tablets and Apple didn't update its top-of-the-line iPad Pro, but there's hope for tablets this year with potential updates for both the iPad and Surface tablets. Rumor has it that Apple may debut a 2020 iPad Pro as soon as next month. The new model will potentially feature a new Mini-LED screen and a triple-lens rear camera that supports 3D sensing for augmented reality. Microsoft is also rumored to reveal a Surface Go 2 tablet in the spring. iPad, anyone? Sarah Tew/CNET Do you want a casual iPad, an even-less-expensive Fire tablet or a Microsoft Surface? Here are some of the best tablet choices we've tried. All of these products (or previous versions thereof) have been fully reviewed or anecdotally tested by CNET editors. The latest iPad (10.2-inch, 7th generation, 2019) An obvious affordable choice Sarah Tew/CNET Apple's small refresh to its entry-level iPad increases the screen size just a bit, offers long-lasting battery life and adds support for smart connector-attached keyboards, making the best tablet for most. Older processor aside, this is a perfectly good iPad, and it's already on sale. But for an even better deal, consider Apple's 2018 9.7-inch iPad, which has nearly identical hardware specs (aside from screen size that's an inch smaller) -- you can often snag the 128GB version of the device for $300, which is a great deal. Read our Apple iPad 10.2-inch 2019 review. $329 at Amazon Read more: Best 2-in-1 PCs in 2020 for when you need a laptop and tablet in one iPad Mini (2019) Expensive, but the best smaller tablet Sarah Tew/CNET Apple refreshed the Mini last spring with Apple Pencil support and an A12 processor that outperforms the bigger 10.2-inch basic iPad. Confusing, huh? Just know that this is a great tablet that can be filled with apps that make it more of a gaming tablet or a drawing tablet, but its smaller surface size may not suit people who want to use it as a laptop replacement. iPad Mini review. $399 at Apple $399 at B&H Photo-Video $350 at Best Buy Read more: Best laptops, desktops and tablets for designers and creatives in 2020 iPad Pro (2018) The best iPad, but... Sarah Tew/CNET Apple's Face ID-enabled, USB Type-C iPad Pro has the best processor and best design and works with Apple's improved, newer Pencil from 2018. This powerful tablet is set with hours of battery life and a liquid retina display. It is a fabulous drawing tablet, and there are lots of drawing apps on the App Store. Its rear camera is also nothing to sneeze at, taking 8MP photos. But you may also consider an IOU and wait for the next version of the device rumored to be on its way soon. Read our Apple iPad Pro (2018) review. $674 at Amazon Read more: Best laptops of 2020 Amazon Fire 7 (2019) The most affordable tablet Sarah Tew/CNET Amazon's rock-bottom tablet prices are always shocking, and this year's Fire 7 is a solid budget tablet pick for basic video/game/kid apps needs. It has a relatively small screen size, but, as always, Amazon Prime lets you get a lot more out of it content-wise, though Amazon's Fire ecosystem is more limited than Android. But if you're buying for a child, definitely invest in the Kids Edition. Beyond parental controls, this version includes a rubberized case, a free year of kid-friendly FreeTime Unlimited content -- and a no-questions-asked two-year replacement warranty for damaged units. Stop living in fear of a shattered screen! Read our Amazon Fire 7 (2019) review. $50 at Amazon Read more: Best Andriod tablets for 2020 Amazon Fire HD 10 (2019) A better but still low-cost Amazon tablet Amazon The 10-inch Fire tablet Amazon is faster and better than the 7 and 8-inch Fire tablets, and it's still a pretty low $150 (or less). There are two storage options, 32 GB and 64 GB. It also charges its battery life via USB type-C now Fire HD 10 gets an upgrade. See at Amazon Read more: Laptop vs. Chromebook: Which portable computer is best in 2020 Microsoft Surface Pro 6 Laptop-tablet that's often on sale Sarah Tew/CNET Microsoft has a newer Surface Pro 7, but 2018's model is still good, and sometimes comes in a great bundle with its keyboard. Anyone looking for the best Windows tablets to use for work or a tablet that can become a full PC, look no further. Read our Microsoft Surface Pro 6 review. See at Amazon Read more: The best Chromebooks for 2020 Samsung Galaxy Tab S6 One of the last good Android tablet options Sarah Tew/CNET It's getting almost impossible to find Android tablet options from name-brand manufacturers, but Samsung still makes them. The Tab S6 Android tablet is expensive, but it's compact and has an optional keyboard with trackpad, and connects to monitors using Samsung's DeX technology. You don't really need a monitor, though, as the Samsung Galaxy Tab S6 has a super AMOLED display. This is the one to consider if you want Android. Galaxy Tab S6 hands-on. See at Amazon Read more: Best 15-inch laptops for 2020 HP Chromebook X2 Chromebook that's also a tablet Sarah Tew/CNET For the right price, the Chromebook X2 could be one of the best tablets of the bunch as far as deals go. It's a functional Chromebook laptop that's also a detachable tablet, and it can also play Android apps. Read our HP Chromebook x2 review. See at Amazon Originally published earlier this year. Comments Tablets Computers Amazon Prime iPadOS Amazon Google Microsoft Samsung Apple Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Best tablets for 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.