https://www.cnet.com/news/at-t-ceo-says-the-first-5g-device-will-be-pucks/
AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson says first 5G devices will be 'pucks' - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In AT&T CEO says the first 5G devices will be 'pucks' AT&T says the biggest bottleneck in the spread of next-generation wireless tech is the lack of 5G smartphones. Roger Cheng January 31, 2018 2:46 PM PST Leer en español 5G is more than just speed, even if it'll be faster than your home broadband connection. Roger Cheng/CNET Don't expect to make a phone call on the first 5G devices. AT&T has set a goal of launching its super-fast next-generation cellular network in a dozen markets by the end of the year. But the first 5G devices won't be phones, AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson said on a conference call on Wednesday, telling investors they should instead expect "pucks" that work like mobile hotspots. That makes a lot of sense, since phone makers and component manufacturers are still working to get everything aligned for 5G phones. The chip makers say the first 5G-compatible radio small enough for a phone won't likely appear until early next year, which is why some scratched their heads about AT&T's push to get 5G out this year. 5G pucks, which would work like portable modems, could offer a taste of the network's amped-up speeds. Talk of 5G is at a fevered pitch because it's supposed to transform our world with faster and more reliable wireless coverage. 5G is seen as the technology that will serve as the foundation for other trends, such as self-driving cars and streaming virtual reality and augmented reality experiences. It's also getting closer to becoming a reality. There's a race and a war of words between carriers over who can get to 5G first. Verizon is investing in 5G as a broadband replacement service and plans to launch commercial service this year, as well. AT&T touts its 5G as the first mobile version of the technology, while T-Mobile has committed to building a nationwide network by 2020, and accused both AT&T and Verizon of overhyping the technology. Stephenson noted the low availability of handsets will be the biggest hurdle early on. The situation is similar to the debut of LTE networks, which first saw laptop modems before smartphones took advantage of the faster network. Beyond the mobile network, Stephenson said the prospect of building a nationwide broadband network running on 5G is what excites him the most. He said he could see 5G replacing traditional fixed line internet connections in the future. "I get very energized about the opportunity in the next few years to build out a nationwide broadband network," he said. Comments 5G AT&T Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: AT&T CEO says the first 5G devices will be 'pucks' Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.