https://www.cnet.com/news/pay-less-for-worlds-best-headphone/
Pay less for world's best headphone? - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Pay less for world's best headphone? The Hifiman HE-5 headphones aren't just a real contender for world's best-sounding headphones, they're also less than half the price of the competition. Steve Guttenberg November 27, 2009 8:15 AM PST I've recently reviewed most of the contenders for the world's best headphones: the Audio Technica ATH-W5000, Denon AH-D7000, Sennheiser HD 800, Grado PS-1000, Ultrasone Edition 8, and the best headphones I've heard so far, the Stax electrostatic SR-007Mk2. I listened to the Stax with the Woo Audio WES headphone amplifier. If you want and can afford the best, go for the Stax-Woo combination. The HE-5. real wood earcups, innovative technology, and awesome sound quality! Hifiman But now I have yet another headphone to check out, and this one is a very different-sounding design. Oh, and it's less than half the price of the least expensive of those models! It's called the Hifiman HE-5, and it uses planar-magnetic drivers to create sound. A planar magnetic driver is a large, flat Mylar diaphragm, coated with superthin aluminum, suspended between rows of slender bar magnets. The HE-5's diaphragm is therefore driven over its entire area, which dramatically reduces distortion; conventional dynamic headphone drivers are "driven" by a voice coil on the outer edge of the diaphragm, so the inner portion is more likely to distort. The HE-5's driver is similar to the Stax electrostatic 'phones in that way, but the HE-5 doesn't use the bias charging scheme that all electrostatic headphones use, which also means the HE-5 can be used with standard headphone amplifiers. The Stax cannot. The HE-5 is incredibly detailed sounding, but at the same time it's very smooth and laid back. Swapping between the HE-5 and the Sennheiser HD 800--considered by many to be the world's best dynamic headphone--the two headphones are opposites. The HD 800 is brighter, crisper, with more apparent treble detail; the HE-5 is softer, warmer, and more natural-sounding. This is especially obvious when listening to acoustic music; the HD 800, as good as it is, sounds like hi-fi reproduction, while the HE-5 sounds real. That's especially true for vocals; I have never heard more lifelike reproduction of the sound of a human voice as I did from the HE-5. I attribute most of that to the headphones' superlow distortion, but there's more going on. Other dynamic headphones constrict and flatten voices. Bass? Yeah, the HE-5s do bass. Listen to the way they pound out the thundering drums on Grizzly Bear's "Veckatimest" CD. Definition and bass "air" are also well above par. The HE-5's soft, cloth-covered earpads feel nice, and the headphone is fairly comfortable. But it's relatively heavy; remember, there are lots of magnets in the real walnut earcups. The HE-5's headphone cable is removable and therefore user replaceable; the silver-plated copper cable is very thin, but fairly stiff. The 6.3mm plug and housing feel nice and solid. I love the HE-5, but there are a few qualifiers to consider. First, the HE-5 is a bear to drive, so it won't work on iPods or most portable devices. I used dedicated vacuum-tube headphone amplifiers, the $399 Hifiman EF5, and my Woo Audio WA6 Special Edition amp for most of my listening tests. So sure, you may have to add the cost of a good amp to the price of the HE-5 (but the HE-5 was also pretty amazing plugged into my Onkyo TX-SR805 receiver). The HE-5 isn't perfect, the Grado PS-1000 is more dynamic, and the Ultrasone Edition 8 makes a lot more bass. But there's something about the way the HE-5 combines remarkable sweetness and effortless detail that I find irresistible. They are my new reference dynamic headphones. The HE-5 headphones are available from Head-Direct for $599, and with the EF5 amp for $899. In any case, they're a whole lot cheaper than the best Grado, Sennheiser, Stax, or Ultrasone headphones. Comments The Audiophiliac Audio Culture Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Pay less for world's best headphone? Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.