https://www.cnet.com/news/iphone-to-hit-us-shops-this-month/
iPhone to hit US shops this month - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In iPhone to hit US shops this month If you're lucky enough to live in America then this June you'll be able to get your hands on one of the most anticipated gadgets this year, the iPhone Andrew Lim June 30, 2007 5:21 AM PDT According to three new Apple ads featured on Apple's Web site, the iPhone is going to be available to buy in US shops on the 29th of June. This is in line with the launch date given by Steve Jobs during the iPhone's unveiling back in January, and puts to rest any rumours about a delay. The adverts, which are as slick as usual, go over all the iPhone's features, including maps, music, pictures, video, Web browsing and calls, of course. Even though it's over four months since the iPhone was announced, seeing it in action in these new ads has got us all a-tingling. Unfortunately, us Europeans will have to wait until the end of the year to get our hands on one, so we'll have to be patient. In the meantime though, we can watch these videos over and over again until one of us cracks and moves to America just to buy one. Many online sources have predicted a rush of US citizens selling off their iPhones on eBay, but we're not sure you're going to want to buy one. It will be locked to AT&T on a two-year contract and there's no word about whether or not you'll be able to unlock it. Our guess is that it will be available in the UK around September -- and we think it's worth waiting for it. Click through for more images from the ads. -Andrew Lim Update: a full review of the Apple iPhone is now live. This is CoverFlow, which like in iTunes lets you browse your album as if you were looking at CD covers. It will be the first time an iPod features the CoverFlow feature. This is the widescreen video mode, which will make watching movies and TV shows much more enjoyable than on other devices with smaller screens, such as the current video iPod. The photo viewer displays all your photos in small thumbnails, so you can see many of them at once and zoom in on the ones you want to see by clicking on them. The Web browser displays an overview of the page, so you can scroll through it quickly and then tap on the pictures or text you want to zoom in on. The phone interface is very straightforward and looks incredibly stylish compared to anything currently available. The iPhone's menu gives you access to all of its features using an icon-based system that's both lovely to look at and easy to understand. This is the text input interface, which features a Qwerty layout and pops up each letter as you type so that you know you've hit the right one. As standard, the iPhone comes with the Google Maps mobile app, which not only lets you find out directions but also gives you access to points-of-interest information, such as restaurants and public transport. Comments Phones Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: iPhone to hit US shops this month Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.