https://www.cnet.com/news/best-tax-software-in-2020-turbotax-h-r-block-tax-slayer-more/
Best tax software for 2020: TurboTax, H&R Block, TaxSlayer and more - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best tax software for 2020: TurboTax, H&R Block, TaxSlayer and more Get your taxes done faster -- and at the best price -- with these online DIY tax options. CNET staff March 20, 2020 9:30 AM PDT Leer en español Best for live personal support TurboTax by Intuit Jump to details See at Turbo Tax by Intuit Best multiplatform option H&R Block Jump to details See at H&R Block Best tax software with refund insurance Jackson Hewitt Online Jump to details See at Jackson Hewitt Best overall pricing TaxSlayer Jump to details See at TaxSlayer Best free option Credit Karma Tax Jump to details See at Credit Karma Best accuracy guarantee TaxAct Jump to details See at TaxAct Best pricing for audit support FreeTaxUSA Jump to details See at FreeTaxUSA Show more (2 items) Tax season is more stressful than ever this year, as Americans are feeling the financial strain of the current crisis. While Tax Day has been moved from April 15 to July 15, even with the postponement, you may still be feeling under pressure. If tax filing has you feeling anxious and overwhelmed, you're not alone. Maybe you're thinking back to last year's income tax filing deadline, when you were scrambling at the last minute to gather all your forms and trying to navigate federal and state income tax codes. Sure, you were saving money by not hiring experienced tax preparers for help, but now you're wondering if it would have been better than going through the hassle of filing your own taxes. From figuring out tax deductions to taxable income to self-employed tax to capital gains to your student loan, tax prep and filing taxes can be complicated. But hiring a one-on-one professional tax preparer can be extraordinarily expensive. The good news is that there are many tax software providers and filing companies that aim to make filing taxes -- from reporting your taxable income or self-employed income, setting up direct deposit and going through your itemized deductions -- easier and more affordable. Whether it's through an online form to do your taxes online, downloadable software or an app, you can turn tax prep and filing into a less laborious process. For the frugal taxpayers out there, you can even find free or super low-cost options for doing your taxes online that rival some of the more established competitors. Choosing a tax prep and filing software that's right for you and your income can seem complicated and time-consuming. But we've waded through all the features and fine print to show you some of the best tax software suited for taxpayers' needs. Read more: How to estimate your 2020 tax refund Best for live personal support TurboTax by Intuit Intuit There's something for all filers with TurboTax -- the company offers a myriad of options even if your tax situation is complicated. A bonus for tax filers who use Quickbooks software (hello sole proprietors!): You can connect it to TurboTax, useful for self-employed people or real estate investors. And if your tax situation isn't complicated (requiring lots of itemized deductions or advice on taxes, for instance) the user-friendly interface makes it simple to breeze through tax prep and file your taxes. TurboTax Deluxe, its most popular option, searches standard deductions and looks for a tax credit to get you your maximum refund. And TurboTax Premier is specifically designed for taxpayers that have investments or rental property. It's hands-down the best tax software for live personal support -- a must for many people when they're filing taxes online. For an extra fee, you get TurboTax Live where filers can receive help from a certified tax professional through on-demand support via live video chat. A CPA or EA will also review your tax return before it's sent off to the IRS, ensuring you're making the proper deductions and just making sure your tax situation is under control. . Max, its audit defense option, offers a dedicated specialist to represent you. It also includes identity theft coverage services such as identity loss monitoring and insurance. Not too shabby for an e-file provider. Read more: IRS stops TurboTax from hiding free tax-filing products in searches One caveat is that you will probably pay more compared to the others on our list. There is a free version, however, for those who only need basic requirements and it's one of the few places where you can enlist the help of certified tax specialists without seeing one in person. Pricing: Free to $120 for federal; $45 per state; additional $60 to $90 for TurboTax Live; additional $50 for Max See at Turbo Tax by Intuit Best multiplatform option H&R Block H&R Block It's not as intuitive to use as TurboTax, but H&R Block is another heavy hitter that offers some decent features such as unlimited technical support to filers, plus phone and chat support for higher tiered customers who need a bit of help on their DIY tax adventure. You get to wade through simple questions, built-in calculators to help with many tax situations and detailed articles to sort through your individual situation -- even if it appears complex. Read more: 12 of the best tax deductions We like that you can file your taxes online, in-person, via its app or by downloading its software. You get a 60-day 100% satisfaction guarantee, import prior year's income tax returns from other companies and a 4% refund bonus if you receive it via an Amazon gift card. For an additional fee, filers get a certified tax pro to review their tax return before filing it. The downside is that filers don't receive free in-person support for audits -- only those who purchase H&R Block software or the Tax Pro Review service will get this benefit. Pricing: Free to $105 for federal; Tax Pro Review $145; $30 to $40 per state See at H&R Block Best tax software with refund insurance Jackson Hewitt Online Jackson Hewitt Aside from its simple tax-filing interface and thorough knowledge articles, Jackson Hewitt Online offers built-in calculators to help filers figure out amortization and depreciation, plus free IRS audit assistance. If you prefer filing in person, you can opt into its Worry-Free Guarantee plan, where you could be reimbursed if you receive a reduced refund or face additional tax liabilities. The Worry-Free Guarantee Platinum tier includes Audit Security where a dedicated specialist manages and represents your case. Read more: The best budgeting apps That being said, to filers looking to do their taxes online, you will not find much here that isn't offered elsewhere -- the ability to import taxes from competitors, tech support via live chat, a free option and auto completion of state returns. Pricing: Free to $50 for federal; $40 per state See at Jackson Hewitt Best overall pricing TaxSlayer Tax Slayer TaxSlayer supports all tax forms on its Classic level and above. Even if you use the free version, customers can access tax advice via its educational tools, phone and email support. Higher tiers, such as TaxSlayer Premium, get access to audit protections, assistance from tax professionals and live chat support. Read more: Manage, save and invest your money with these apps If you're a real estate investor or own a rental property, be aware there aren't calculators for amortization and depreciation, nor are there audit protections for self-employment income. The major perk is that TaxSlayer offers a no-interest advance on your tax refund -- receive either $500 or $1,000 once the IRS accepts your filing and receive the funds on a Green Dot Prepaid Visa card in as little as 24 hours. Once you receive your refund, TaxSlayer will deposit the rest after deducting your advance and any applicable fees. Pricing: Free to $47 for federal; $29 per state See at TaxSlayer Best free option Credit Karma Tax Credit Karma While some other free tax filing software charges for state returns, Credit Karma Tax doesn't. Instead it gives you a user-friendly interface, helpful guidance to explain tax-related terminology and live chat technical support. Credit Karma also claims to have more features compared to TurboTax's free option, including filing for mortgage interest, property tax and student loan interest deductions. Read more: Where to file your taxes for free Other features include audit defense, where customers can receive services such as a consultation from a representative who can also attend a hearing on your behalf and help with tax debt resolution options. If you end up receiving a larger tax refund or owe less in federal taxes after filing with Credit Karma, you may be able to receive up to $100 in gift cards. Credit Karma's tax software has its limitations -- you can't import a tax return from a competitor. To start filing, you need to grab the IRS transcript of last year's tax return. See at Credit Karma Best accuracy guarantee TaxAct TaxAct On all paid tiers, TaxAct users can receive guidance from a tax specialist as an add-on option, much like TurboTax offers. Depending on the tier you could receive unlimited one-on-one phone or in-app chat support and screen-share capabilities. It's simple to import last year's taxes, navigate through its platform and browse through its knowledge database as you input your itemized deductions. Read more: Tax day frustration: Why can't the pros keep up with financial tech? Where TaxAct shines is its $100,000 Accuracy Guarantee -- receive up to $100,000 for any difference in liability or refund, IRS penalties and interest, plus a refund for TaxAct software fees. This feature might make it the best tax software for you if you have a high taxable income or a complicated tax situation where you feel errors may be likely. Pricing: Free to $80 for federal; $15 to $80 tax specialist support; $40 state filing (except free tier) See at TaxAct Best pricing for audit support FreeTaxUSA FreeTaxUSA Comparable to Credit Karma Tax, FreeTaxUSA is mostly free except you need to pay when filing state taxes. It's a little more user-friendly since it offers options for importing previous tax returns from competitors and filing an amended tax return. Most tax forms are supported and the deluxe version gives you added perks such as priority live chat and customer support, filing unlimited amended returns and receiving access to its audit service, giving you access to tax specialists. These professionals will be able to address your specific questions, including how to understand an audit notice, paperwork you need for taxes and assistance in writing a response to the IRS. Pricing: Free for federal; $15 per state; $6.99 deluxe version See at FreeTaxUSA Originally published earlier. Comments Notification on Notification off Taxes Close Discuss: Best tax software for 2020: TurboTax, H&R Block, TaxSlayer and more Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.