https://www.cnet.com/news/cook-hints-at-additional-siri-features-coming-soon/
Cook hints at additional Siri features coming soon - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Cook hints at additional Siri features coming soon Apple CEO Tim Cook says there's more on the way when it comes to Siri, and the company has "a lot of people" working on it. Josh Lowensohn May 29, 2012 7:47 PM PDT Apple's Siri Apple Siri as we know her (or him in some places) is due for an upgrade in the coming months, Apple's chief executive teased tonight. During a live interview at the D10 conference tonight in Palos Verdes, Calif., Cook was asked whether the company's voice assistant was up to the company's standards. Cook replied by saying that customers "love it," but that there was more to be done, and that the company had "a lot of people working on this." He added that people will be "really pleased with some of the things you see over the coming months on this." "We have some cool ideas about what Siri can do," he said. Siri, of course, remains a beta product for Apple. A rarity by its standards, but also one that's been the headlining feature for a handset that was otherwise an incremental bump over the already-popular iPhone 4. The product, which is a successor to the namesake company Apple acquired, launched alongside the iPhone 4S last October. The feature uses the iPhone 4S' built-in microphone, taking user commands and turning them into actions on the phone. That includes searching the Web, setting reminders, and checking stock prices. Those queries are piped through Apple's servers then fed back to the phone. Apple is expected to extend the functionality of the product, something software tweaking enthusiasts have long since done, using it to search from other Web sources, and even tie into things like home thermostats. The next big update is expected to be something official from Apple that lets third-party apps -- not just those chosen by Apple -- into the system to add additional tools and features. CNET's Rafe Needleman contributed to this report. Update at 10:45 p.m. PT: Here's the relevant section of the talk with Cook: Comments Tim Cook Siri Apple Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Cook hints at additional Siri features coming soon Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.