https://www.cnet.com/news/coronavirus-how-to-track-the-virus-spread-across-the-world-as-cases-top-180000-asia-the-us-europe-australia-africa/
Coronavirus: How to track the spread across the world as cases top 500,000 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Coronavirus: How to track the spread across the world as cases top 500,000 An online dashboard shows all confirmed, suspected and recovered coronavirus patients, as well as deaths. Corinne Reichert March 27, 2020 4:08 PM PDT You can track the spread of coronavirus with an online dashboard. Screenshot by Corinne Reichert/CNET For the most up-to-date news and information about the coronavirus pandemic, visit the WHO website. The deadly coronavirus continues to spread across the globe, and you can use an online dashboard to keep up with all reported cases. The Center for Systems Science and Engineering has built a tool pulling in data from the World Health Organization, as well as the centers for disease control in the US, China and Europe. It shows all confirmed, suspected and recovered coronavirus patients, as well as deaths. Coronavirus, which originated in Wuhan, China, has so far killed 26,996 people and infected over 591,000 as of 4:00 p.m. PT on March 27, according to the dashboard. Around 130,000 people have recovered. The 10 countries with the highest case count are the US with 101,657; Italy with 86,498; mainland China with 81,897; Spain with 64,285; Germany with 50,871; France with 33,402; Iran with 32,332; the UK with 14,743; Switzerland with 12,928; and South Korea with 9,332. The dashboard shows the virus has spread to 176 countries, with even the smallest areas including Faroe Islands and Vatican City reporting cases. Cases have been confirmed in North America, Europe, Asia, the Middle East, Africa, South America, Australia and the Pacific, with the illness exhibiting pneumonia-like symptoms. It was first reported to the World Health Organization on Dec. 31, 2019, with Chinese scientists linking the disease to a family of viruses known as coronaviruses that include the deadly SARS and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). Coronavirus updates FDA warns at-home coronavirus tests are unauthorized and fraudulent Zoom has been a chaotic beacon of light during the coronavirus lockdown FBI says beware of stimulus-package scams Snowden says government surveillance amid COVID-19 could be long lasting This post was originally published Jan. 24 and is constantly updated. CNET Coronavirus Update Get all the latest on the coronavirus that's now been declared a pandemic. Coronavirus in pictures: Scenes from around the world 63 Photos Comments Sci-Tech Software Health and Wellness Coronavirus Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: Coronavirus: How to track the spread across the world as cases top 500,000 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.