https://www.cnet.com/news/verizon-wireless-drops-open-access-challenge/
Verizon Wireless drops 'open access' challenge - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Verizon Wireless drops 'open access' challenge Company withdraws appeal of FCC rules requiring a portion of wireless spectrum sold in an upcoming auction to be open to any wireless devices or apps consumers desire. Anne Broache October 24, 2007 6:20 AM PDT Verizon Wireless' court fight against new federal rules that require "open access" on some forthcoming wireless networks appears to be no more. The No. 2 U.S. wireless carrier on Tuesday filed for "voluntary dismissal" of its September petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, according to the court docket. The filing for dismissal was reported earlier Wednesday by Dow Jones/Associated Press. At issue are Federal Communications Commission rules for an upcoming auction of 700MHz wireless spectrum, also known as the analog television band. That band is scheduled to be vacated in early 2009 for the switch to all-digital broadcasts. The spectrum is considered prime real estate for existing or would-be mobile operators because its signals travel farther and can penetrate walls. The FCC decreed this summer that about one-third of the spectrum that's sold must be open to whatever wireless devices and applications a consumer wishes to use. That's potentially significant since wireless carriers have been known to particular networks and restrict the software that their subscribers can operate. However, its broader impact remains to be seen, since, big-picture-wise, the rules pertain only to a relatively small slice of spectrum. While the FCC's move drew praise from public-interest groups and companies like Google, the wireless industry largely greeted the rules with disappointment. Verizon Wireless took the more aggressive step of challenging the FCC's order in court. In its brief, Verizon Wireless charged that the FCC's action exceeded its authority, was "arbitrary, capricious, unsupported by substantial evidence and otherwise contrary to law," and even violated the U.S. Constitution. At the time, some industry analysts said it's rare for such actions to succeed, as courts typically give deference to the rule-making agency in such cases. Google and the public-interest groups would have actually preferred to see the FCC rules go further, requiring the new spectrum owners to sell access to competitors at reasonable, wholesale rates. Google, for its part, pledged to bid up to $4.6 billion if all those conditions were met. But because the FCC rules fell short, Google is still weighing how to proceed. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Verizon Wireless drops 'open access' challenge Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.