https://www.cnet.com/news/even-sprint-topped-at-t-verizon-in-customer-growth/
Even Sprint beat AT&T and Verizon in customer growth - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Even Sprint beat AT&T and Verizon in customer growth An end-of-year surge in signups suggests Sprint is starting to pull itself out of a death spiral at last. Roger Cheng January 31, 2017 4:56 AM PST Sprint's customer growth continues to see momentum. Jamie Squire, Getty Images Customers are turning to Sprint again. In fact, they're starting to look to the nation's fourth-largest wireless carrier over stalwarts like AT&T and Verizon Wireless. The company said it added 405,000 net new post-paid subscribers -- people who pay at the end of the month and tend to be more loyal. Of that total, 368,000 were phone customers, Sprint's highest rate of growth in four years. The numbers suggest Sprint is starting to pull itself out of a death spiral, reversing years of losses, customers faced with poor service and a network that lagged behind the competition. Sprint's customer growth came at a time when all the carriers were aggressive with holiday promotions. It's a trend that will likely continue, resulting in more potential deals for consumers. "Sprint is turning the corner," CEO Marcelo Claure said in the company's fiscal third-quarter report on Tuesday. Claure has injected some life into Sprint with a campaign that essentially boils down to this: We're good enough for your business. The company's commercials play up its half-off plans versus the competition (the rates go up after two years) and a mere 1 percent difference between the quality of its network and that of Verizon. To keep the momentum going, Sprint last week unveiled a temporary offer of $50 a month for unlimited data. Earlier this month, Verizon reported adding 167,000 net new phone customers in the fourth quarter, while AT&T lost 67,000 postpaid phone customers. T-Mobile released some of its customer growth numbers early, including the addition of 933,000 postpaid customers in the fourth quarter. Sprint also added 673,000 wholesale customers, but lost 501,000 prepaid customers in the period. The quarter had traditionally been a strong one for the company, but competition from the likes of AT&T's Cricket Wireless and T-Mobile's MetroPCS has taken its toll. The postpaid customer turnover rate improved slightly to 5.8 percent from 5.82 percent a year ago, although it ticked up from the September quarter. All this growth came at a price. The company lost $479 million, or 12 cents a share, although that is narrower than the year-ago loss of $836 million, or 21 cents a share. Revenue rose 5.5 percent to $8.55 billion, below analysts' average forecast of $8.69 billion, according to Yahoo Finance. Still, the customer growth was likely to enough to put investors in a good mood. Shares of the company rose 0.1 percent to $9.12 in premarket trading. CNET Magazine: Check out a sampling of the stories you'll find in CNET's newsstand edition. Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility. Comments Mobile Earnings AT&T Sprint T-Mobile Verizon Notification on Notification off Verizon wireless Close Discuss: Even Sprint beat AT&T and Verizon in customer growth Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.