https://www.cnet.com/news/e3-2007-guitar-hero-iii/
E3 2007: Guitar Hero III - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In E3 2007: Guitar Hero III Guitar Hero III Dan Ackerman July 13, 2007 1:24 PM PDT Activison The game responsible for getting more non-gamers playing (except perhaps Wii Sports and Madden) is Guitar Hero, an addictive mix of rock-and-roll karaoke and Simon Says. The concept is simple, strap on a vaguely guitar-shaped plastic controller, and press the brightly colored buttons in time to music note that float down the screen. That catch is that you're playing along with B and C-list classic rock tunes, and the better you play, the more songs you unlock. Already a hit on the PS2 and Xbox 360, publisher Activision has to really come up with some new features to get fans to pony up for a third time. Guitar Hero III doesn't exactly break the mold, but adds just enough to keep dedicated fans coming back. Adding the PlayStation 3 and Nintendo Wii to the mix opens the franchise up to new users who have so far been stuck watching from the sidelines (of course, PS3 gamers could get a third-party adapter to hook their guitar controllers up and play the first two games). The 360, Wii, and PS3 versions come with a new wireless Les-Paul-licensed guitar controller, with swappable faceplates, while the PS2 version has a much less cool wired controller. Seventy new tracks are included, from Paint It Black by The Rolling Stones to Sabotage by the Beastie Boys. Many of the tracks will be by the original artists, rather than the cover versions found in the previous Guitar Hero games, which makes a huge difference Activision A new online multiplayer mode lets you play against other shredders around the world, which is probably the most exciting new feature. The graphics have also gotten a major facelift, although honestly, everyone playing the game is too busy watching the notes fly by to pay attention to the pretend band playing on stage in the background. After ruling the charts for so long, Guitar Hero III is about to have some serious competition. With EA's Rock Band, featuring guitar, bass, and drum controllers, along with a microphone, picking up some major buzz, it's going to be a real battle of the bands for faux rock games this holiday season. If you're keeping score, here's a list of confirmed Guitar Hero III tracks. Activision is milking the publicity by releasing a few track names at a time between now and the game's fall release, but did reveal that Guns & Roses guitarist Slash will appear in the game as a boss battle. Paint It Black (by The Rolling Stones) Cherub Rock (by Smashing Pumpkins) Sabotage (by Beastie Boys) The Metal (by Tenacious D) My Name is Jonas (by Weezer) Knights of Cydonia (by Muse) Rock And Roll All Nite (as made famous by Kiss) School?s Out (as made famous by Alice Cooper) Slow Ride (as made famous by Fog Hat) Cult of Personality (by Living Colour) Barracuda (as made famous by Heart) Comments Crave Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: E3 2007: Guitar Hero III Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.