https://www.cnet.com/news/how-to-pick-the-perfect-pillow/
How to pick the perfect pillow - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In How to shop for a new pillow The wrong kind of pillow can wreak havoc on your sleep. Here's how to find one that's just right for you. Molly Price March 6, 2019 3:00 AM PST Leer en español Josh Miller/CNET Getting a good night's sleep requires a lot of variables lining up. In addition to having a good mattress, comfortable sheets, climate control, lighting and mental distractions all play a role in how well your rest is. So does your pillow. Where you lay your head at night can affect not only how well you sleep, but how rested you feel when you wake up. Here's what to consider when shopping for your next pillow. Read more: 12 proven ways to sleep better tonight The 10 best pillows in 2019, according to the internet 8 products to help you stop snoring Now playing: Watch this: Do these 8 things to sleep better tonight 2:38 Sleeping position and support level Good sleep posture means aligning your body with good support. The head, neck, spine, hips, even knees and ankles should be supported and aligned so you don't wake up with aches and pains. The first step to picking the right pillow is identifying which position you sleep in most often. How you sleep informs what level of support your body needs in a pillow. Stomach If you sleep on your stomach most of the time, try a very thin pillow or none at all. Since stomach sleeping puts a significant amount of stress on your lower back, the National Sleep Foundation suggests sleeping on your side instead with a body pillow for comfort. Side If you're a side sleeper, invest in a firm pillow with an extra-wide gusset (the rectangular panels around the pillow that increase thickness). This added thickness helps fill in the distance between your shoulder and your ear, adding support for your head and neck. For better spine alignment, you could also try adding a pillow between your knees. Back If you like to sleep on your back, consider a thinner pillow. Keeping the pillow on the thin side ensures your neck isn't tilted too far forward. Try a pillow with an extra loft in the bottom third (that odd bump in modern memory foam pillows you've always wondered about). That bump supports your neck while allowing your head to rest in a normal alignment. Memory foam is a good bet here because it will mold to the shape of your neck and head. Looking for even more support? Add a pillow beneath your knees to relieve lower back pressure. Filler material What your pillow is filled with can make a big difference, especially if you have allergies or are sensitive to certain materials. If real feathers aren't an option for you, consider down alternatives. Most polyurethane or polyester fiber pillow are hypoallergenic and shouldn't irritate sensitive sleepers. The same goes for some buckwheat hull and memory-foam models. Be sure to check the packaging and remember that each filler feels different. Don't be afraid to try it out in the store to get an idea of how soft, firm, lumpy or solid the pillow feels. How to get better sleep in 2019 29 Photos Temperature Do you sleep hot? Some pillows include cooling gel with memory foam or a breathable polyester to keep you comfortable. If you're really serious about keeping a cool pillow, consider high performance pillows or pillowcases with moisture-wicking fabric. Like athletic clothing fabric, these are designed to keep away heat and moisture. When to replace your pillow Experts at the National Sleep Foundation recommend replacing your pillow every 18 months or so. Pillows can be packed with mold, dead skin cells and dust mites. Totally grossed out? Try adding a pillow protector to extend the healthy life of your pillow. To determine if it's really time to get a new pillow, test it by folding it in half and seeing if it springs back to flat. If it doesn't, it's time to find a new place to rest your head. While there are dozens of factors affecting how well you sleep, having a pillow that supports your preferences and sleep style goes a long way. With the right pillow and maybe even a smarter mattress, you'll be off to dreamland in no time. Hopping into bed with sleep tech? Not so fast How to buy bed sheets: Linen vs. percale vs. sateen The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Health and Wellness See All • reading How to shop for a new pillow • Mar 23 How to effectively clean the inside of your car if you're worried about COVID-19 • Mar 21 This is the gear you need to work from home • Mar 20 Google sibling Verily: Coronavirus website has led to over 130 tests so far • Mar 20 Google I/O is fully canceled, after earlier nixing the in-person event Comments Health and Wellness Sleep Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: How to shop for a new pillow Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.