https://www.cnet.com/news/the-biggest-nfl-stadium-is-getting-wi-fi-6-from-cisco/
NFL's biggest stadium will open with Wi-Fi 6 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In NFL's biggest stadium will open with Wi-Fi 6 SoFi Stadium, where the LA Chargers and LA Rams will play starting next year, is getting the latest wireless service from Cisco. Corinne Reichert November 1, 2019 5:54 PM PDT SoFi Stadium will have Wi-Fi 6 when it opens in July. Hollywood Park Land Company SoFi Stadium, where NFL's Los Angeles Rams and Los Angeles Chargers will play their home games when it opens next summer, is getting Wi-Fi 6 -- as is the surrounding Hollywood Park area. Cisco is in charge of installing the high-speed wireless connectivity, the networking giant said Thursday. Wi-Fi 6 is the next standard in wireless networking, allowing compatible devices like routers to take advantage of to transmit Wi-Fi signals more efficiently. Speeds are meant to be around 30% faster than Wi-Fi 5, with a theoretical maximum speed of 10Gbps. The Samsung Galaxy Note 10 was the first phone to be officially Wi-Fi 6 capable, and it was followed by the iPhone 11. There's also multiple Wi-Fi 6 routers on the market. When CNET conducted our first round of Wi-Fi 6 speed tests, we clocked Wi-Fi 6 transfer speeds at 1,320Mbps -- around 40% faster than the fastest Wi-Fi 5 speed we've ever measured of 938Mbps. It was also 1,000% faster than the current average download speed in the US of 119Mbps. For the new LA-area stadium, Cisco said there'll be more than 2,500 Wi-Fi 6 access points, providing four times more bandwidth and promising that everyone can be on their phones at the same time. Cisco said the setup will also have better reliability so it won't drop out, will have higher security and will be less taxing on phone batteries. The venue is also getting 4K HD video across 2,500 screens, using Cisco Vision. Read also Verizon launches 5G in NFL stadiums across the US Wi-Fi 6: Better, faster internet is coming -- here's what you need to know "We envision SoFi Stadium not just hosting world-class events like the Super Bowl and the Olympics, but also ... [setting] a new standard for the fan experience through cutting-edge technology that will enhance the way guests interact with live events," said Jason Gannon, managing director of SoFi Stadium and Hollywood Park. LA Rams owner and chair E. Stanley Kroenke is developing SoFi, which will be the biggest stadium in the NFL. The indoor-outdoor stadium in Inglewood, California, will seat up to 100,000 people and is set to open in July 2020. There will be a 6,000-seat performance venue next door for concerts, awards shows and esports competitions. Super Bowl LVI in 2022 will take place in SoFi Stadium, as will the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2028 Los Angeles Olympic Games. First published at 7:00 a.m. PT on Oct. 31. Updated on Nov. 1 at 5:54 p.m.: Adds more detail on Wi-Fi 6. Samsung, LG, Motorola: How soon can we expect 5G phones? 13 Photos Comments Mobile Internet Internet Services Wi-Fi Notification on Notification off Cisco Close Discuss: NFL's biggest stadium will open with Wi-Fi 6 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.