https://www.cnet.com/news/tax-day-frustration-why-cant-the-pros-keep-up-with-financial-tech-cryptocurrency/
The tax establishment can't keep up with modern financial tech - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Tax day frustration: Why can't the pros keep up with financial tech? Commentary: Cryptocurrency transactions, peer-to-peer loans -- all this data ought to just flow straight into my tax return. Stephen Shankland April 15, 2019 8:00 AM PDT At tax time, new financial tech means excursions into dangerous waters. (This ancient map is actually on display at the Maritime Museum in Bergen, Norway, but illustrates the point nicely.) Stephen Shankland/CNET I knew doing my own taxes again would be a pain after years of outsourcing the annual headache to accountants. What I didn't realize was how much worse new financial technology like cryptocurrency and peer-to-peer lending would make the job. My half century of life has been a series of excursions into US tax code territory previously unknown to me -- home interest mortgage deduction, married filing jointly, child tax credit. For years, I calculated taxes for myself and then my family started using Intuit's TurboTax. Even if the territory was unknown to me, I was still walking well-trodden paths. This year, though, I entered the here-be-dragons part of the map. Read more: The best tax software I made it back alive, thanks to dozens of internet searches, forum posts, supplementary information PDFs and $50 I paid to a service that understands cryptocurrency math. I even read the actual law behind the US tax code to try to comprehend one point. I'm hardly at the bleeding edge of finance. But the weekend I lost to America's annual accounting ordeal shows how badly the tax establishment is keeping pace with new ideas. New tax territory We lived in the UK and France for a few years, and the three-country complications meant we relied on professionals to do our taxes. However, now that we're back in the USA and I'm doing the taxes again, I've found I've fallen behind the times -- and I'm not alone. My first difficulty was handling money we've invested at LendingClub, which arranges peer-to-peer loans. The idea is to give lenders (like me) a way to earn more interest than with money parked at a bank, while offering borrowers a way to pay less interest than what credit cards charge. As the middleman brokering (and automating) the deals, LendingClub takes its cut of the payments. Cryptocurrency accounting no doubt will settle down. But the punishment I endured for just dipping my toes into the waters worries me. It's all documented in a tax form dozens of pages long, in our case with hundreds of transactions. But good luck getting this handily packaged, digital data into TurboTax. LendingClub is allergic to giving tax advice, so that left the legwork to me and some helpful souls who'd posted about the issue on various internet forums. In principle, I could have imported the data directly. But TurboTax warns you that performance can degrade if you add too many transactions, and I saw enough horror stories online about grindingly slow results that I didn't risk it. From a software point of view, I found this baffling. Today's computer science challenges are grappling with AI bias and useful recommendation engines. A 2,000-row spreadsheet has been child's play for PCs for decades. Intuit didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. Related stories Last chance to check out the best online tax software options for 2019 from Turbo Tax, H&R Block and more services Congress wants to prevent IRS from expanding its free online tax filing Taxes 2019: When they're due, how to file online and more Cryptocurrency cringing My next trouble was with cryptocurrency. Mostly out of curiosity to see how it all worked, I'd bought some bitcoin through Coinbase and tried another service called Heleum that seeks to make money by shuffling your investments among different cryptocurrencies at an exchange called Uphold. Trading such assets forced me to combine that ages-old accounting problem -- calculating the cost basis of an investment -- with the brave new world of virtual currency. I quickly threw up my hands and paid startup TaxBit $50 to extract the transaction data. Happily, the service works with both Uphold and Coinbase, though if I'd had more than 200 transactions I'd have had to pay for a pricier tier. Again, TurboTax quailed at the prospect of a lot of transactions, so I had to figure out how to enter the summary data drawn from the nicely generated but useless form 8949 that TaxBit created. Why is this my problem? I made it back from the dangerous waters of cryptocurrency and peer-to-peer lending, but I'll have to make the same journey again next year. Screenshot by Stephen Shankland/CNET Cryptocurrency accounting no doubt will settle down. But the punishment I endured for just dipping my toes into the waters worries me. We're very far away from a frictionless new financial technology revolutionizing commerce by doing away with low-value middlemen. Solar panel perplexity TurboTax was invaluable on several occasions. I couldn't have made my journey without tax software, and it handled mainstream situations, like the country's new and differently complicated tax law, with aplomb. TurboTax also was still useful with old-school complications like the IRS' form 1116. That cuts you some slack if you owned a mutual fund that paid taxes in foreign countries -- if you can dive deeply enough into your brokerage data. TurboTax likewise helped me comprehend a complicated capital loss carryover question. But it often felt like there are no easy answers in our tax system. For example, does the cost of the new roof we got along with our solar panels count as part of the tax credit worth 30% of the installation cost? Do 50 different searches about this, and you'll get 50 different answers. I went all the way to the IRS tax code, to little avail: "No expenditure relating to a solar panel or other property installed as a roof (or portion thereof) shall fail to be treated as property ... solely because it constitutes a structural component of the structure on which it is installed." The IRS guidance on the solar tax credit is similarly opaque. No wonder people are willing to pay an accountant hundreds of dollars to take care of it all. Autofill tax forms I was displeased to hear how years of lobbying by TurboTax maker Intuit and its rival H&R Block apparently is bearing fruit in the form of proposed legislation that would block the US government from providing us with tax forms already helpfully filled out with the data employers and financial institutions must report. Taxpayers in some other countries have a system that is painless, but despite some new scrutiny, the bill passed the House of Representatives. (In response to our earlier inquiries on that topic, Intuit didn't directly address the recent lobbying criticism, but it pointed CNET to a company post concerning taxes.) Autofilled tax forms would be great, and no doubt millions of people would love to get their time and money back. But I fear the deeper problem is the monumental complexity of the US tax code. My 2019 state and federal taxes are done. I'd be basking in the glory of my achievement right now -- except that I know I'll have to make the same journey again next year. Comments Cryptocurrency Notification on Notification off Software Close Discuss: Tax day frustration: Why can't the pros keep up with financial tech? Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.