https://www.cnet.com/news/isuppli-apple-cutting-2008-flash-memory-orders/
iSuppli: Apple cutting 2008 flash memory orders - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In iSuppli: Apple cutting 2008 flash memory orders Apple still plans to snap up a lot of flash memory this year, but if consumers are really thinking about keeping a tighter lid on their wallets, it might have to dial back on memory for iPods. Tom Krazit February 22, 2008 10:31 AM PST Correction, February 22: This story misidentified how much iSuppli expects Apple to spend on flash memory this year. The company doesn't yet have a revised estimate for how much Apple expects to spend, and won't until more information becomes available. Apple is reportedly cutting its flash memory orders for the year, in another sign it's worried about the economy. iSuppli reported Wednesday that Apple has started informing its flash memory suppliers that it's planning to use less flash memory in 2008. Apple's still planning to purchase 27 percent more flash memory this year than last year, but iSuppli and Apple's suppliers had expected an increase of more like 32 percent. Update February 22: This was an error on my part. The 27 percent increase in flash memory spending in 2008 was iSuppli's previous expectation for the global market, not the revised expectation for Apple's spending. Right now, iSuppli doesn't have an estimate of how much Apple plans to spend on flash memory this year, and won't until more data becomes available. If people hold off on buying iPods this year, Apple's flash memory purchases will have to slow. Apple Apple is the third largest buyer of flash memory among companies that manufacture their own products, according to iSuppli. If Apple coughs, the flash memory market gets sick. Several suppliers are expected to record a loss during the first quarter as the slower purchases coincide with a rise in spending on equipment. Despite posting solid financial results in January, Apple's iPod shipments in the fourth quarter of the calendar year were below expectations. The company said it's shipping more of the higher-priced iPods like the iPod Touch these days, as opposed to the low-end iPod Shuffles, which makes sense since iPod revenue growth for the quarter was actually quite strong. As that transition takes place, however, the unit growth of the iPod juggernaut might slow. This situation isn't the end of the world--lots of companies would be willing to trade places--but after almost five years of breakaway growth, Apple's rocket ship might be slowing down as consumers start worrying more about the mortgages and jobs as opposed to their digital music collections. The company is notorious for giving financial analysts guidance below their expectations for an upcoming quarter, but in January it delivered earnings guidance that was 15 percent below analyst estimates, compared to an average guidance of 7 percent lower than expectations over the last seven quarters. Apple's stock went into a tailspin the next day, plunging 10 percent, and it has yet to recover along with the rest of the market. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: iSuppli: Apple cutting 2008 flash memory orders Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.