https://www.cnet.com/news/the-mandalorian-how-to-watch-the-new-star-wars-series-on-disney-plus/
The Mandalorian Episode 8: How to watch the new Star Wars series on Disney Plus - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. The Mandalorian Episode 8: How to watch the new Star Wars series on Disney Plus The last episode drops on Friday, Dec. 27. Matt Elliott December 24, 2019 6:00 AM PST Lucasfilm Forget The Rise of Skywalker: a new warrior has arrived in the Star Wars universe... along with Baby Yoda. The Mandalorian launched on Nov. 12 with the Disney Plus streaming service, and now the eight-episode season will conclude when the last episode is released on Friday, Dec. 27. See below for a spoiler-free look at how you can watch The Mandalorian on Disney Plus. Sign up for Disney Plus How do I stream stuff on Disney Plus? You can access Disney Plus on phones, tablets, computers, connected TVs and streaming media boxes. Disney has global distribution agreements in place with Apple, Amazon, Google, LG, Microsoft, Roku, Samsung and Sony. You can stream Disney Plus on the following devices: Roku's boxes, sticks and TVs Apple TV ($179 at Apple), iPhone and iPad ($400 at HSN) Phones and TVs running on Android operating systems, as well as Chromecast ($16 at eBay) streamers Xbox One PlayStation 4 Amazon Fire TV devices Samsung smart TVs LG smart TVs Now playing: Watch this: Disney Plus: Everything you need to know (The Daily Charge,... 7:59 How much does Disney Plus cost? In the US, the service costs $6.99 a month. You can also save a bit by plunking down $70 for the annual plan, which works out to $5.83 a month. International pricing and availability varies, both in terms of cost and when the service debuts. In Australia, the service launched last month and costs AU$8.99 a month, or AU$90 a year. Disney Plus will launch on March 31 across Western Europe, including the UK, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and a number of other countries in the region. Is there a trailer I can watch? If you have yet to start watching The Mandalorian, check out the video embedded below or watch the trailer on YouTube. What's the episode release schedule? There's only one more episode to go. Here's the schedule for the series, with links to our recaps: Episode 1: Already available Episode 2: Already available Episode 3: Already available Episode 4: Already available Episode 5: Already available Episode 6: Already available Episode 7: Already available Episode 8: Friday, Dec. 27 Who wrote The Mandalorian? Jon Favreau wrote and produced the show. Favreau, best known for directing Iron Man and the new Lion King, says it explores the darker, freakier side of Star Wars. Who's in it? Pedro Pascal, best known for playing Oberyn Martell in Game of Thrones, plays the main character, a lone Mandalorian gunfighter operating in the outer reaches of the galaxy. The cast also includes Gina Carano, Carl Weathers, Giancarlo Esposito, Emily Swallow, Omid Abtahi, Werner Herzog and Nick Nolte. When does it take place within the Star Wars universe? The show is set seven years after Return of the Jedi (so six years after the Empire's final defeat at the Battle of Jakku and 23 years before The Force Awakens) and focuses on all-new characters. View this post on Instagram #starwars #TheMandalorian A post shared by Jon Favreau (@jonfavreau) on Oct 3, 2018 at 4:17pm PDT See a galaxy of new Star Wars toys from Rise of Skywalker, Mandalorian and Fallen Order 41 Photos Comments TVs Media Streamers Disney Plus Disney Amazon Star Wars Google LG Microsoft Samsung Sony Apple Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: The Mandalorian Episode 8: How to watch the new Star Wars series on Disney Plus Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.