https://www.cnet.com/news/coronavirus-disease-gets-an-official-name-covid-19/
Coronavirus disease gets an official name: COVID-19 - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Coronavirus disease gets an official name: COVID-19 The virus itself has also been named. It will be known as SARS-CoV-2. Oscar Gonzalez, Jackson Ryan February 11, 2020 2:07 PM PST Leer en español Listen - 02:33 The outbreak started at the end of December in Wuhan, China. Getty Images For the most up-to-date news and information about the coronavirus pandemic, visit the WHO website. The novel coronavirus, first discovered in the city of Wuhan, China, and reported to the World Health Organization on Dec. 31, has rapidly spread across mainland China. In the past six weeks it's infected over 40,000 Chinese citizens and killed more than 1,000. During that time, the virus had a placeholder name -- 2019-nCoV -- while the respiratory illness it causes remained unnamed. On Tuesday, WHO officially named the illness caused by the coronavirus "COVID-19," with "CO" representing "corona," "VI" for "virus" and "D" for disease. The "19" relates to the year when the first cases presented in China. The Coronavirus Study Group, part of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses, was responsible for naming the coronavirus itself. The virus will be known as SARS-CoV-2, according to a preprint paper uploaded to bioRxiv by the study group. CNET Coronavirus Update Get all the latest on the coronavirus that's now been declared a pandemic. So: The novel coronavirus, previously dubbed 2019-nCoV, is now officially named SARS-CoV-2. The disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 is now officially named COVID-19. The new coronavirus has genetic similarities to the virus that caused the SARS epidemic in 2002-2003. The naming convention is very similar, but it's a little confusing. SARS -- severe acute respiratory syndrome -- was the disease, while SARS-CoV was the virus that caused the disease. An official name will help prevent inaccuracy and stigmatizing while also providing a standard format for any future outbreaks, WHO said during a media briefing to provide updates on the outbreak. "Under agreed guidelines between WHO, the World Organisation for Animal Health and the Food and Agriculture Organization, we had to find a name that did not refer to a geographical location, an animal, an individual or group of people, and which is also pronounceable and related to the disease," said Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director general of the World Health Organization. Daily media briefing on #2019nCoV with @DrTedros https://t.co/rIOrFuLckE — World Health Organization (WHO) (@WHO) February 11, 2020 The organization said it's assisting other countries with how to prevent the disease and how to help those who are already sick. Fears about the novel virus spreading across the globe have created havoc for international travel to and from mainland China, caused the closure of a handful of tech firms in China and dramatically reduced the attendee list for this year's Mobile World Congress. A number of big names -- Amazon, Sony, Nvidia, LG -- will skip the world's biggest mobile trade show, citing public health concerns. Originally published on Feb. 11, 8:47 a.m. PT. Update, 11:18 a.m. PT: Adds background details. Update, 1:49 p.m. PT: Clarifies virus names/disease names. Comments Health and Wellness Coronavirus Notification on Notification off Sci-Tech Close Discuss: Coronavirus disease gets an official name: COVID-19 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.