https://www.cnet.com/news/midnight-serenity-for-new-yorks-iphone-hippies/
Midnight serenity for New York's 'iPhone hippies' - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Midnight serenity for New York's 'iPhone hippies' A pack of activists is still the entirety of the line for the iPhone 3G at New York's Fifth Avenue store, waiting for the device to go on sale while supporting sustainable agriculture in the first place. Caroline McCarthy July 7, 2008 9:44 PM PDT Things are still quiet outside the Apple Store. Caroline McCarthy/CNET News.com NEW YORK--Some time shortly before midnight, I stopped by the Fifth Avenue Apple flagship store here to get an update on the folks who were waiting in line for the iPhone 3G. It hits stores Friday. It's very quiet here. There is no one new who has lined up for the phone; the line still consists exclusively of the sustainable-agriculture activists from Waiting for Apples. (I guess eager fanboys got our memo that as a trend, gadget-queueing has reached the tipping point.) Regardless of what you think of their mission, these happy hippies are extremely pleasant to talk to and say that they have been thoroughly enjoying their stay--despite constant press coverage, not all of it good. "I was a little worried after I read some of the comments on Engadget about us," one of the Waiting for Apples volunteers, Heyward Gignilliat, who teaches English as a second language at Boston's Northeastern University, told me. Nothing against Engadget--it's just that blog commenters can be awfully nasty. "But overall, it's been pretty positive." News.com Poll Apple's latest and greatest Will you buy an iPhone 3G? Yes, I'll be one of the first in line. Yes, but I'm going to avoid the launch rush. No, I'm not interested. View results The Apple Store, open 24-7, offers bathrooms and free Wi-Fi that extends into the plaza around it. Days can be blisteringly hot, but nights are tolerably breezy and the thunderstorms dotting weather forecasts have stayed away. The serene glass-box design of the subterranean Apple Store and the adjacent decorative fountain make for a nice setting. It's bound to be a mess when the line gets longer, but for now, things are chill. They've had a few temporary guests, Gignilliat told me. A young man from Venezuela showed up with his mother as part of a sightseeing trip in New York prior to heading to the Berklee College of Music in Boston. He'd planned to be the first in line at the New York store, but his plans were foiled by the presence of Waiting for Apples, who hope to snag a Guinness World Record for their week-long wait. He consequently decided to head to Boston early, Gignilliat explained, and try to be the first in line at an Apple Store up there. Another noted visitor was New York Times tech pundit David Pogue, who'd also planned to be the first in line and appeared to be surprised by the presence of a line already (though who knows if that was a planned gag for the camera crew he had in tow). And another speculator was milling around the line around midnight, checking out the scene and saying he was planning to join the line, but his willpower seemed questionable. But for now, the line is quiet, with only a handful of people holding down the fort. They should enjoy it for now--come Wednesday or Thursday, things are going to get a lot more hectic at the intersection of Fifth Avenue and East 58th Street. Comments Gadgets Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Midnight serenity for New York's 'iPhone hippies' Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.