https://www.cnet.com/news/apple-iphone-7-7-plus-get-a-red-special-edition-iphone-se-doubles-storage/
Apple iPhone 7, 7 Plus get a red special-edition makeover - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Apple iPhone 7, 7 Plus get a red special-edition makeover The new color is part of the Product Red program, which funds HIV/AIDS programs in sub-Saharan Africa. The iPhone SE will also get double the capacity. Roger Cheng March 21, 2017 5:48 AM PDT Now playing: Watch this: All of Apple's new hardware announcements 1:22 No, the new iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus aren't blushing. They're now available in red. Apple on Tuesday unveiled a variant of its flagship phone as part of the Product Red program, which funds programs that combat HIV and AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa. The special edition of the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus will come in 128-gigabyte and 256GB configurations, starting at $749 (£699, AU$1,079). They will go on sale Friday. Enlarge Image Apple While Apple has long participated in the Red program, this marks the first time the company has employed the color in its marquee phone. Other Red products include its original iPod Nano, Beats products and accessories for its iPad, iPhone and Apple Watch. The company on Tuesday also doubled the storage of its budget iPhone SE, which starts at $399 (AU$679) but now gets 32GB or 128GB options. The iPhone 7 has been good to Apple since its debut in September. In the final calendar quarter of 2016, it led Apple to record sales of 78.3 million total iPhones, accounting for roughly two-thirds of the company's revenue for the three months. How red is the iPhone 7 Plus Product Red Special Edition? 19 Photos The red variant and the higher-capacity SE give Apple a midcycle rallying cry in between major updates to its marquee product line. Later this year, the company is widely expected to unveil the iPhone 8. Tuesday's news also comes two months after the 10th anniversary of the original iPhone, a few weeks after pretty much every other phone maker used the high-profile Mobile World Congress to introduce their own new devices and a week ahead of Samsung's introduction of its next flagship phone, the Galaxy S8. Over the years, Apple has broadened the color palette of the iPhone, which originally just came in black. With the iPhone 7, customers were already able to choose from jet black, black, silver, gold and rose gold. Apple said that all the money raised by Red goes directly to fund HIV and AIDS grant that provide testing, counseling, treatment and prevention programs. The company added that since 2006, Product Red has generated more than $465 million for its Global Fund, with more than $130 million coming from Apple. Separately, Apple on Tuesday announced a new 9.7-inch iPad. Does the Mac still matter? Apple execs tell why the MacBook Pro was over four years in the making, and why we should care. CNET Magazine: Check out a sampling of the stories you'll find in CNET's newsstand edition. Comments Apple Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Apple iPhone 7, 7 Plus get a red special-edition makeover Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.