https://www.cnet.com/news/apple-250000-iphones-bought-to-unlock/
Apple: 250,000 iPhones bought to unlock - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Apple: 250,000 iPhones bought to unlock It's sort of a mushy number, but Apple said Monday that it thinks 250,000 of the 1.4 million iPhones sold so far were bought with the intention of unlocking them from AT&#38;T's network. Tom Krazit October 23, 2007 6:10 PM PDT Throughout all the hoopla over the hacking of the iPhone, it was never very clear how many people were actually trying to escape from AT&T. Apple ventured a guess on Monday. During a conference call to discuss the company's blowout fourth quarter, Apple Chief Operating Officer Tim Cook said that of the 1.4 million iPhones sold since June 29, 250,000 were bought with unlocking in mind. As many as 250,000 iPhones might have been bought last quarter and unlocked, Apple said Monday. CNET Networks "Where we don't know precisely how many people are doing that, our current guess is there were probably 250,000 of the 1.4 million that we sold where people had bought them with the intention of doing that," Cook said, or actually volunteered: no one asked him that specific question. There are now several reports out that suggest the 250,000 is a firm number of unlocked iPhones in the wild, but that's not exactly what Cook said. An Apple representative said Tuesday that Cook's comments were just an estimate of unlocked iPhones, although it does appear to be a pretty damn good estimate. AT&T had its own earnings conference call earlier Tuesday, and Bloomberg reported that the carrier said it has activated 1.1 million iPhones to date, which could suggest that as many as 300,000 iPhones might be destined for other cellular networks. Some of that difference can be chalked up to units in transit as the quarter ended on September 29, or iPhones that were bought at the very end of the quarter and activated at the very beginning of the next. Of course, it's also very possible to unlock an iPhone without going through the registration and activation process with both Apple and AT&T, disappearing off the radar screen. As discussed at length, Apple is unlikely to stand idly by and let users unlock their iPhones. Peter Oppenheimer, the company's CFO, confirmed the obvious on Monday, that Apple doesn't receive any payments from AT&T under their revenue-sharing agreement for iPhones that aren't running on the AT&T network. Many of the iPhones counted in Cook's estimate were sold after Apple cut the price of the device by $200, he said. So not only did Apple miss out on the higher profit on those iPhones, it's also losing the ongoing revenue from AT&T's data services. Now that several of the iPhone hacking groups have figured out a way around the 1.1.1 software update, which bricked many of the early unlocked phones, Apple likely has another software update waiting in the wings. Comments Culture Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Apple: 250,000 iPhones bought to unlock Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.