https://www.cnet.com/news/dell-customers-rant-over-notebook-shipment-delay/
Dell customers rant over notebook shipment delay - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Dell customers rant over notebook shipment delay The forthcoming XPS M1330 notebook turned heads when first introduced. But miscommunication between buyers and Dell causes customers to take their anger out on the official Dell blog. Erica Ogg July 31, 2007 5:39 PM PDT Though the wait for the Dell XPS M1330 notebook to ship appears to be over, the effect of the delay could last longer, thanks to Dell's own corporate blog. If you're peeved over the tardy arrival of your tricked-out M1330, you're definitely not alone. Hundreds of postings to the Round Rock, Texas-based PC maker's Direct2Dell blog show that many customers aren't just impatient over a product delay--some say they feel mislead. The Direct2Dell blog was introduced to communicate with customers and the media, and has thus far been a positive communication and public relations tool for a company that's trying to regain its momentum. Blog entries range from product announcements to making direct comparisons of products with those of chief rival Hewlett-Packard, to discussing the company's portrayal in the media. But the delays surrounding the high-end XPS M1330 notebook have turned the blog into an outlet for complaints. To recap: the notebook was originally announced in late June, but estimated delivery dates ran between four and six weeks for some customers, which is longer than some anticipated. On Wednesday, the blog's manager, Lionel Menchaca, said he was looking into the issue. More than 100 people piled on in the comments section, complaining of poor customer service and miscommunication during the ordering process. On Sunday, Alex Gurzen, senior vice president of consumer products, got involved, posting an apology and (sort of) explaining the reason for the delay in shipments. Since then, commenters have continued airing their grievances openly. True to form for most anonymous Internet bulletin boards, Dell forum users are not mincing words: many have called out customer service for not being up front about expected delays, while some are threatening to never buy a Dell computer again. But what appeared to incense buyers even more was Gurzen's response. Dell is now offering a free Timbuk2 messenger bag with each laptop, but whether trendy totes will appease customers remains to be seen. Product delays can obviously happen to any company, but this seems like a step backward in Dell's mission to move forward. "Dell's made so many moves in the right direction, and it strikes me as really odd that they wouldn't delay the launch of the product until the product was ready to go," said Samir Bhavnani, analyst with Current Analysis West. "These are $3,000 systems, these aren't a $699 box," the buyers of which are not the type of customers you want to alienate. True, and Dell, however, is not the only one to suffer a public flogging recently on its own Web site for its product delays. In June, the Lenovo T60 and T61 were slow to get out of the factory, and customers responded in kind on Lenovo Blogs. So what's the problem? Are these PC makers just underestimating demand or jumping the gun on taking orders or both? I'll take a look and find out. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Dell customers rant over notebook shipment delay Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.