https://www.cnet.com/news/canonicals-new-ubuntu-paves-way-for-server-push/
Canonical's new Ubuntu paves way for server push - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Canonical's new Ubuntu paves way for server push Version 7.10, "Gutsy Gibbon," finally brings a flashy 3D interface to the desktop edition of Ubuntu. Meanwhile, Canonical is staffing up its server effort for 2008. Stephen Shankland October 17, 2007 11:02 AM PDT Canonical plans on Thursday to release "Gutsy Gibbon," the Ubuntu Linux version 7.10 that the company hopes will lay the foundation for a serious push into the server and other markets six months from now. That's when Gutsy Gibbon's sequel, "Hardy Heron," is scheduled to arrive. Gutsy Gibbon will have the usual Ubuntu support life span--18 months--but Hardy Heron will be the company's second version to feature long-term support, which lasts three years for the desktop product and five years for the server. Some of the Gutsy Gibbon work involved introducing new features Canonical hopes to stabilize for Hardy Heron, said Canonical's chief executive and founder, Mark Shuttleworth. Take, for example, the "tickless" kernel, which is designed to reduce power consumption and improve server virtualization performance by letting the processor enter a somnolent state more often. "I'm quite glad we're not trying to make the decision between tickless and long-term support. This is a fairly radical piece of surgery on the kernel," Shuttleworth said. Among other Gutsy Gibbon developments are snazzy 3D graphics for the desktop version, desktop search called Tracker and the first incarnation of a Ubuntu Mobile version for portable gadgets. Building a server team At the same time, Canonical also is expanding support and development staff for the server push, which as with Linux leaders Red Hat and Novell is where the vast majority of money is made in the Linux business. "The team has grown quite a bit. That's in preparation for our LTS (long-term support) release, which will be based on the April 2007 release," Shuttleworth said. To lead the server team, currently at about eight employees and counting, Canonical hired Rich Clark, whose financial services background gave him experience with high performance, reliability and virtualization. The team also has begun working directly with server makers to ensure the software works on their x86-based machines--not just the ones available when Hardy Heron launches, but the new servers that will also arrive during the software's five-year lifespan. "There will be a fair amount of hardware enablement after the release. That's not something that's been done in the past," Shuttleworth said. Although the work will stop short of full-on certification, Shuttleworth said, "We're confident we can do all the engineering required to make it just work." Canonical has focused on desktop computing as a way to get programmers and enthusiasts interested in Ubuntu, hoping that ultimately will lead to use in the server market. Shuttleworth, who grew rich off his sales of Thawte Consulting to VeriSign for $575 million in 2000, is willing to be patient in the transition from Ubuntu popularity to Canonical profitability. "The transformation we're trying to bring about will take years," he said. "What we're trying to achieve is very substantial shift in the operating system landscape. It's a huge, entrenched industry, where one shouldn't expect it to turn on its head." Canonical has made some inroads, including a certification deal with online e-mail software maker Zimbra and a partnership to power Linux laptops from Dell. Zeev Suraski and Andi Gutmans, co-founders of Zend, provide a useful view of Ubuntu's spread: their commercially supported open-source PHP software, which lets programmers at sites such as Facebook and Fiat create dynamic Web pages, is most often used on Linux. Debian is still used more often than Ubuntu, but the latter is used by programmers and is spreading, Suraski said. Canonical is growing. It now has about 120 employees, of whom 70 are programmers. New features The new 3D desktop interface is the "most visible" new feature in Gutsy Gibbon. "It's also the most risky," Shuttleworth said, and deciding whether to include it triggered "a lot of debate at highest levels of the board." Compiz software enables flashy 3D effects, such as this 'wobbly windows' plug-in. Compiz.org But Canonical wanted to get it settled before releasing Hardy Heron with its long-term support requirements. "We think this really is a hotbed of innovation," Shuttleworth said. "Ultimately we took the decision to take the risk and enable this functionality by default." One problem with the interface stems from its use of the OpenGL 3D graphics standard. That breaks other applications, such as computer-aided design software, that also use OpenGL. Those computer users will have to disable the interface, Shuttleworth said. Advanced Micro Devices' decision to help Novell and others create an open-source driver for its ATI line of video cards helped push Ubuntu programmers to adopt the to 3D interface, Shuttleworth said. Currently, 3D acceleration typically requires proprietary video driver software, which is hard to support on Linux and distasteful to many. Among other Gutsy Gibbon desktop features are plug-and-play function to more easily install proprietary or missing software to play audio and video files; easy support for multiple monitors; the ability to read and write from hard drive partitions using Microsoft Windows' NTFS file system using the Fuse software. Ubuntu is based on Debian, a distribution of the Linux kernel and higher-level packages that's been around for years. Canonical releases new versions every six months, but versions with long-term support arrive only every two years under current plans. Shuttleworth established it with a major difference over what leaders Red Hat and Novell have done: the free product and the supported product are the same. The rivals sell support subscriptions only to their for-fee version, Red Hat Enterprise Linux and Suse Linux Enterprise Server. Shuttleworth wants Ubuntu to grow as fast as possible, but he won't follow in Red Hat's footsteps by shifting to a fee-only supported version after gaining market share with a free product. "I don't think we would survive a transition like that," Shuttleworth said. "The industry already effectively has got proprietary free-software providers. We wouldn't add anything." Comments Notification on Notification off Photography Close Discuss: Canonical's new Ubuntu paves way for server push Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.