https://www.cnet.com/news/best-cold-brew-coffee-makers-in-2020/
The best cold-brew coffee makers of 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. The best cold-brew coffee makers of 2020 These are our favorite cold-brew products that supply a steady stream of sweet, strong chilled coffee. Brian Bennett February 26, 2020 5:30 AM PST The best overall Oxo Cold Brew Coffee Maker Jump to details $49 at Amazon The best for your fridge Bialetti Cold Brew Coffee Maker Jump to details $24 at Amazon The best for both coffee and tea Espro Press P5 Jump to details $79 at Amazon The best for big batches Filtron Cold Water Coffee Brewer Jump to details $45 at Amazon The best for speedy brewing Gourmia Cold Brew Coffee Maker Jump to details $39 at Amazon The best value Takeya Cold Brew Coffee Maker Jump to details $19 at Amazon The best for small spaces Oxo Compact Cold Brew Coffee Maker Jump to details $29 at Amazon Show more (2 items) Enlarge Image The Bialetti Cold Brew Coffee Maker. Tyler Lizenby/CNET Cold-brew coffee is strong, sweet, packed with flavor and much less acidic-tasting than regular hot or iced coffee. Those are just a few reasons why this delicious drink is so hard to resist. Your local coffee shops and restaurants know that too. They'll try to tempt you into paying exorbitant prices for it. Don't give into them. Making cold-brew coffee can be as easy as adding room-temperature water or colder water (not hot water) to ground coffee and letting it steep. Thanks to a growing number of home cold brewers, you can whip up a batch of your own kitchen cold brew in style. It's way better than a traditional coffee pot. Some brewers even make cold brew in a fraction of the time it usually takes. The Gourmia Cold Brew is an excellent example. The counter machine completes the process in minutes, rather than hours. If speed isn't a priority, there are plenty alternatives. Oxo's cold brewer is affordable and easy to operate, and makes excellent cold brewed coffee concentrate. Likewise, the Takeya and Bialetti pitchers also have prices that are easy to swallow. Traditional cold brewers like those require at least 12 hours of brewing time, but devotees will tell you the stuff is worth the wait. And, no matter how you prefer your chilled coffee -- beans or grounds, ultraconcentrated, ready yesterday or with minimal hassle -- we've got the best cold brewed coffee maker here that'll fit your needs perfectly (and won't get you into hot water). Disclaimer: CNET may get a share of revenue from the sale of the products featured on this page. The best overall Oxo Cold Brew Coffee Maker Tyler Lizenby/CNET A breeze to operate, the Oxo Good Grips Cold Brew Coffee Maker offers an easy path to steeping and straining grounds at room temperature. The cold brew the Oxo Good Grips makes is consistently strong, sweet and with deliciously low acidity. To add an additional layer of filtration, Oxo Good Grips bundles paper filters that can aid the brewer's stainless steel mesh reusable filter. If you want to make hot tea, the Good Grips can also be used as a tea infuser to fill your cup or jar. Read our Oxo Cold Brew Coffee Maker review. $49 at Amazon The best for your fridge Bialetti Cold Brew Coffee Maker Brian Bennett/CNET Made to live in your fridge, the affordable Bialetti Cold Brew pitcher can pour directly into glasses. Its internal stainless steel mesh filter basket has a wide mouth that accepts the coffee grinds without making a mess, and the airtight lid keeps the taste fresh. The concentrated brew it makes is also strong, rich and packed with a pleasant coffee taste. The main drawback with this brewer is you need to drain its filter into the carafe by hand. $24 at Amazon The best for both coffee and tea Espro Press P5 Tyler Lizenby/CNET One tried-and-true method for making cold brew is to use a French press, with the coffee steeping overnight. One drawback to these simple contraptions though is they tend to have poor filters. The result is often a gritty drink -- solid coffee grounds suspended in a water solution, especially if you don't have a coarse grind for your coffee beans. The Espro Press P5 tackles the gritty coffee grounds problem by using two stainless steel mesh filter baskets. The extra level of filtration helps the P5 create cold brew (or hot) that's wonderfully smooth and flavorful. However, the beverage the Espro brews isn't as concentrated as what other products make. What is nice is that you can brew tea with the Espro just as easily. Read our Espro Press P5 review. $79 at Amazon The best for big batches Filtron Cold Water Coffee Brewer Tyler Lizenby/CNET Looking for an affordable way to make cold brew in big batches? The Filtron Cold Water Coffee Brewer creates a full 36-ounce carafe of potent coffee concentrate that you can store in your fridge. Rich and tasty, the coffee concentrate you pour from the Filtron is of excellent quality. Just be warned: Its relatively complicated setup and large size demand lots of counter space. Read our Filtron Cold Water Coffee Brewer review. $45 at Amazon The best for speedy brewing Gourmia Cold Brew Coffee Maker Tyler Lizenby/CNET Need your tall glass of cold brew fast? Then the Gourmia Cold Brew Coffee Maker is right up your alley. The vacuum pump-powered electric appliance can brew your beverage in 4 minutes flat. That's a ridiculously short time to create and pour cold brew in, but as you might expect, the taste of those 4-minute brews is weak. Fortunately, maxing the brew time out to 15 minutes produces a much stronger drink. And that's still not long to wait compared with the 12 hours of steeping that cold brewing usually takes. Read CNET's full review of the Gourmia Cold Brew Coffee Maker.. $39 at Amazon The best value Takeya Cold Brew Coffee Maker Tyler Lizenby/CNET Outside of an old-school Mason jar, it's hard to beat the low price of this Takeya cold coffee brewer. The BPA free dishwasher safe plastic pitcher comes with an airtight seal and has a slim profile made to slide into fridge door shelves. With its fine mesh reusable filter, It's also easy to clean and makes solidly satisfying cold brew. If you want strong, concentrated coffee though, this product isn't your cup of tea. It brews a weaker drink than other similar products. Read our Takeya Cold Brew Coffee Maker review. $19 at Amazon The best for small spaces Oxo Compact Cold Brew Coffee Maker Tyler Lizenby/CNET If you want the convenience of Oxo's bigger cold coffee brewer in a more compact size, this kitchen gadget is for you. The pint-size Oxo Compact Cold Brew Coffee Maker shoehorns into tight spots around the home. Despite its petite stature though, the coffee maker still brews beverages just as concentrated as it larger sibling. $29 at Amazon The shaky world of coffee maker startups 11 Photos Now playing: Watch this: We test the ultimate breakfast machine 4:07 Read more: The best coffee makers for 2020: Bonavita, Ninja, Oxo, Moccamaster and more Coffee products you never knew you needed The best coffee grinder you can buy right now Originally published last year. 8 gifts for coffee lovers: Find the perfect gift for the caffeine junkie in your life. 7 tips that will change the way you brew coffee at home: Even a drip coffee maker can brew a cup or jar with an artisanal taste. Comments Smart Home Amazon Notification on Notification off Coffee Makers Close Discuss: The best cold-brew coffee makers of 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.