https://www.cnet.com/news/june-is-iphone-month-is-september-iphone-2-month/
June is iPhone month, is September iPhone 2 month? - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In June is iPhone month, is September iPhone 2 month? Two Taiwanese newspapers have reported that Quanta has secured a contract to make a second-generation iPhone, as speculation continues about the launch date for the first one. Tom Krazit May 29, 2007 1:29 PM PDT Just for a moment, forget about waiting for the first iteration of Apple's iPhone: speculation is well under way about the next version. As speculation about the first launch of the iPhone reaches fever pitch, it's time for new speculation about the second version. CNET Networks According to reports in two Taiwanese newspapers Tuesday, the Commercial Times and the Economic Daily News, manufacturing powerhouse Quanta Computer has landed the contract to build a second-generation iPhone for Apple starting in September. The first version isn't out yet, as anyone with a pulse is probably aware, but the next version requires a "different outer design," according to numerous translations of the reports. But IDG News Service reported that Quanta has not actually secured the contract. Earlier reports had indicated that Foxconn, one of Apple's primary iPod suppliers, was making the first generation iPhones. And CNET Taiwan received a tip from its own source who said the Quanta contract actually involves a widescreen iPod with a wireless chip. So, back to waiting for the first iPhone. CNBC reported last week that it's due to arrive on June 20th, in line with Apple's statements that it will appear in late June. That would seem to indicate that CEO Steve Jobs won't be able to release the iPhone at the upcoming Worldwide Developer's Conference starting June 11, but rather that the company will hold a separate iPhone event. Then on Tuesday, Crunchgear reported that June 11th actually looks like it will be the date, based on an account from a Fry's Electronics staffer that the company is gearing up to sell AT&T Wireless products with a special promotional deal around the iPhone. This is consistent with what a Cingular (now AT&T) employee told my colleague Declan McCullagh earlier this year. But can a date that falls before the midpoint of the month be considered "late" June? Since we're bored with all this date speculation, let's start betting on the exact time of day that Apple will release the iPhone. Midnight launch with long lines? Stampede from the WWDC keynote over to the San Francisco Apple Store on June 11th? Happy hour at the Fifth Avenue store? Submit your thoughts, maybe we can get Bodog.com to take our action. Comments Crave Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: June is iPhone month, is September iPhone 2 month? Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.