https://www.cnet.com/news/nvidias-new-geforce-card-aims-to-bring-3d-power-to-the-masses/
Nvidia's new GeForce card aims to bring 3D power to the masses - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Nvidia's new GeForce card aims to bring 3D power to the masses Nvidia updates its GeForce line with a value card Rich Brown October 29, 2007 10:42 AM PDT Nvidia seems to be offering a steal of a video card this morning. Its new GeForce 8800 GT will go for between $200 and $250, and Nvidia claims it's faster than the $450 ATI Radeon HD 2900 XT, and Nvidia's own GeForce 8800 GTS cards. We're working on our own review, and you can expect a post up shortly. Based on the results of a handful of review sites, Nvidia seems to have delivered a bargain here, taking out both its own and ATI's previous bang-for-the-buck winners. The new GeForce 8800 GT looks to deliver significant 3D bang for your gaming buck. Nvidia Aside from the price-performance value, the GeForce 8800 GT has a few other notable features. It's the first graphics card to come with PCI Express 2.0 support. That won't mean much today, because few motherboards offer the wider-bandwidth slot and PCI Express 1.1 still provides a wide-enough data pipe. But it's nice to know that when that might matter, these new cards will be able to take advantage. The other benefit is that the 8800 GT also seems to be a single-slot card. Both the GeForce 8800 GTX and the 8800 GTS have double-wide fan and heat-sink hardware, which takes up a ton of space inside your PC. The single-slot 8800 GT not only makes it easier to add one card, it also means you can run two of them in SLI mode in a wider variety of systems and without sacrificing as many expansion slots. And it's a good thing this new card is so SLI-friendly, because from the look of early benchmarks and Nvidia's own testing, even a single high-end GeForce 8800 GTX card won't deliver truly smooth, 60 frames per second gameplay when you turn all of the DirectX 10 graphics features on in next-gen poster-child Crysis . But if two 8800 GT cards ($400-$500) cost less than a single 8800 GTX ($500-$600), you might be able to get better performance by doubling up on two of the new midrange cards. The single player Crysis demo that went online over the weekend can't tell us because it has no SLI support, so we'll have to wait for the full version to be sure. Also keep in mind that ATI has a new midrange card due out in a few weeks as well. Comments Crave Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Nvidia's new GeForce card aims to bring 3D power to the masses Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.