https://www.cnet.com/news/trump-signs-defense-bill-with-watered-down-zte-sanctions/
Trump signs defense bill with watered-down ZTE sanctions - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Trump signs defense bill with watered-down ZTE sanctions Some lawmakers had sought to reinstate penalties against the Chinese telecom giant for violating trade laws. Steven Musil August 13, 2018 5:59 PM PDT Leer en español President Donald Trump signs the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 at Fort Drum, New York, on Monday. Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty Images President Donald Trump on Monday signed a $716 billion defense policy bill that weakened efforts to punish Chinese telecom giant ZTE for violating trade laws. The bill, named for ailing Arizona Sen. John McCain, prohibits the US government and its contractors from buying certain telecommunications and video surveillance equipment from ZTE, Huawei and a handful of other Chinese communications companies. The ban covers components and services deemed "essential" or "critical" to any government system. ZTE, the fourth-largest smartphone maker in the US, had been dealing with a Commerce Department denial order that prevented American businesses from selling hardware or services to the company. It followed the government's determination that ZTE violated terms of a 2017 settlement by failing to fire employees involved with illegally shipping US equipment to Iran and North Korea. The seven-year ban forced ZTE to shut down its "major operating activities." ZTE seemingly had little hope of survival until Trump tweeted that he was pushing the Commerce Department to work with ZTE to remove the ban -- an unprecedented move by a US president to countermand one of his own departments. Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle criticized Trump's tweet as irresponsible, prompting him to defend his position with yet another tweet. Some lawmakers had hoped to use the bill to reinstate tough penalties against ZTE, but the compromise bill removed a provision that would undo a deal the Commerce Department struck in June for ZTE to pay a $1 billion penalty to resume business with US suppliers. But lawmakers agreed to abandon that effort in late July. The security of Huawei products has been questioned by US intelligence officials, who worry of alleged ties to the government in Beijing. AT&T and Verizon both dropped plans to sell Huawei phones amid those concerns. Huawei called the inclusion of its products in the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 "ineffective, misguided and unconstitutional." "It does nothing to identify real security risks or improve supply chain security, and will only serve to stifle innovation while increasing internet costs for US consumers and businesses," Huawei said in a statement. "We believe that the American people deserve equal access to the best possible connections and smart device options, and will keep working to make this happen." ZTE didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. Now playing: Watch this: ZTE gets a lifeline to resurrect its business 1:01 Follow the Money: This is how digital cash is changing the way we save, shop and work. CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition. Comments Tech Industry Target ZTE Donald Trump Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Trump signs defense bill with watered-down ZTE sanctions Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.