https://www.cnet.com/news/jabra-elite-75t-unveiled-our-favorite-airpods-rival-gets-a-new-and-improved-sequel/
Jabra Elite 75t unveiled: Our favorite AirPods rival gets a new and improved sequel - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Jabra Elite 75t unveiled: Our favorite AirPods rival gets a new and improved sequel The successor to Jabra's popular Elite 65t is designed to better fit more people's ears. It ships in October for $200. David Carnoy September 5, 2019 9:00 AM PDT Leer en español Enlarge Image The Jabra Elite 75t. David Carnoy/CNET The Jabra Elite 65t arrived in early 2018 and quickly became one of our favorite true wireless (AirPods-style) headphones, with the slightly more rugged Elite Active 65t earning a CNET Editors' Choice Award. So what does Jabra do for an encore? It puts out the new Elite 75t, an evolutionary upgrade that offers a series of improvements over its predecessor: It's 20% smaller, offers better battery life and USB-C charging. The upgrades do come at a cost, however. Due to hit stores in October, the Elite 75t lists for $200 (£190 and $AU 299) -- that's $30 more than the Elite 65t did when it first came out, and $55 more than the current-gen AirPods. Read more: The best true wireless earbuds of 2019 | Best cheap true wireless earbuds: Top AirPods alternatives for $100 or less | Plantronics releases 3 new true wireless headphones, one of which is really good I haven't listened to the new model, but Jabra sent me a non-working early unit to give me a sense of the design changes. It says the drivers are the same -- so the sound should be unchanged -- but the smaller design will help more people get a more comfortable, snugger fit. The charging case is smaller, too. Now playing: Watch this: Jabra Elite 75t: A first hands-on with the sequel to... 4:01 The issue for many of these in-ear noise-isolating headphones is that they fit some ears better than others. I didn't have a problem with the fit of the Elite 65t, but I've heard from some friends and acquaintances that they ended up returning the earphones because they didn't quite fit. Getting a tight seal is not only crucial to having the buds stay in your ears securely but it allows you to get the best sound out of them with improved bass performance. I can't say the new design made a huge difference for me. As I said, the Elite 65t basically fit my ears almost perfectly. However, I do think the new design will make a difference for some people and it definitely makes the earbuds more discreet. The "pipe" of the earbuds, where the voice microphone lives, has almost been eliminated on the Elite 75t and its absence gives the earbuds a more streamlined look. Enlarge Image The Elite 65t (left) vs. the Elite 75t (right). Sarah Tew/CNET I did appreciate the smaller charging case. I also like that it has a flat bottom so you can lay it down horizontally (you have to stand the Elite 65t's case up vertically). Additionally, Jabra has made the case easier to open than close than the Elite 65t's case. These design upgrades may seem small but they clearly improve the product. The headphones still have four microphones -- two in each earbud -- but the location has changed. There are now microphones at the front and the back of each bud. The Elite 65t worked well as a headset and this model should be just as good for making calls, if not slightly better. Jabra Elite 75t 14 Photos These are also equipped with Bluetooth 5.0, which helps improve battery life, Jabra says. While the earphones are smaller battery life is now rated at 7.5 hours at moderate volume levels -- up from 5 hours on the Elite 65t. The case provides an additional 20.5 hours of battery life. With an IP55 water-resistance rating, the Elite 75t is splashproof and offers some dust resistance and will be fine to use at the gym and for running. Like the Elite 65t, there's a HearThrough transparency mode that lets ambient sound in and Jabra says the Sound+ app will get an update to the EQ settings so you can tweak the sound to your liking. You can also choose between various voice assistants, including Alexa and Google Assistant. Enlarge Image The earphones have a more discreet design. Sarah Tew/CNET The Elite 75t's biggest challenge is that it's entering a far more competitive market than its predecessor. In addition to models on Amazon for as little as $80 -- or $32 -- the past few months have seen the impressive Jaybird Vista and the awesome Sony WH-1000XM3, to name just a few. The $200 price of the Jabra Elite 75t puts it at the high end of the range, too. I would have liked to have seen Jabra improve the sound a bit, but nevertheless this should be one of the top true wireless headphones out there -- and should fit more ears. I look forward to fully testing it and posting a full review just before it ships this October. Jabra Elite 75t key specs Key specs, according to Jabra: 20 percent smaller Fits flat against your ear, with no nose for microphones Smaller charging case that's easier to open and close 50% longer battery life -- 7.5 hours at moderate volume levels -- with charging case providing an additional 20.5 hours USB-C charging Same drivers as Elite 65t (same sound) 4 microphones (two in each earbud), with microphones now at front and back of buds Bluetooth 5.0 Proprietary technology from GT Telecom Optimized wireless antenna placement Sound+ will get update to EQ settings HearThrough transparency mode IP55 certified water-resistant (splashproof) Two-year warranty Price: $200 Three color options: Titanium black, all black (Best Buy exclusive) and gold/beige arrives later this year Shipping in October Comments IFA 2019 Mobile Accessories Headphones Amazon Best Buy Sony Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Jabra Elite 75t unveiled: Our favorite AirPods rival gets a new and improved sequel Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.