https://www.cnet.com/news/apple-posts-nice-q1-but-pessimistic-on-q2/
Apple posts nice Q1, but pessimistic on Q2 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Apple posts nice Q1, but pessimistic on Q2 Earnings are strong, but the company disappoints financial analysts with its second-quarter guidance amid a nervous stock market. Tom Krazit January 22, 2008 4:44 PM PST Updated at 3:45 p.m. PST following the conference call, with changes throughout. Apple's first quarter hit on all cylinders, as the company continued its financial run on the strength of its Mac business. But anyone looking for reassurance about the overall health of the economy later this year didn't get it from Apple. The company posted revenue Tuesday of $9.6 billion for its first fiscal quarter, which ended December 29. That's better than the $9.5 billion expected by financial analysts, and Apple also gave them good news with its earnings-per-share number of $1.76, better than expectations of $1.62 per share. That translates to net income of $1.6 billion, up 58 percent from last year. Mac sales were up 44 percent compared with last year, as Apple continued its resurgence in personal computers. But investors will wonder if the iPod gravy train is coming to an end, as Apple's iPod sales of 22.1 million iPods was well below Wall Street expectations of 24.7 million. That's just 5 percent unit growth compared with last year, but iPod revenue was up 17 percent, so perhaps Apple sold more high-end iPod Touches than iPod Nanos or Shuffles as a percentage of its mix during the quarter. Apple executives supported that argument during a conference call with financial analysts after the release of the company's earnings. Apple gained iPod share internationally, but iPod units sales in the U.S. were flat, said Tim Cook, Apple's chief operating officer. While not specifically addressing the missed Wall Street target for iPod unit sales, Cook did say that iPod unit sales met the company's own expectations. And the iPod Touch is off to a good start, he said, which accounted for overall iPod revenue growth that matched last year's first-quarter revenue growth. "This was the most expensive iPod we've introduced in some time," said Peter Oppenheimer, Apple's CFO. The company thinks the iPod Touch really belongs in a different category than the broader music player market, saying the iPod Touch has a chance to "become the first mainstream mobile Wi-Fi platform." Nintendo and Sony might have minor quibbles with that statement, but Oppenheimer's point was that you can't necessarily use years of iPod sales to chart the progress of the iPod Touch. On the Mac front, Apple enjoyed another spectacular quarter, with Mac unit growth of 44 percent and revenue growth of 47 percent compared with last year. "The Mac business is on fire," Cook said, and the increases were led primarily by the new iMac desktops Apple introduced last August. Apple estimates that 19 percent of the Mac installed base is running Leopard, Mac OS X 10.5, and Leopard generated $170 million in revenue for Apple during the first quarter it went on sale, compared with the $100 million that Tiger, Mac OS X 10.4, generated for Apple in 2005. CEO Steve Jobs already tipped the company's hand on iPhone shipments at Macworld, noting that Apple had sold 4 million iPhones as of his keynote speech. Apple sold 2.3 million iPhones during its first quarter, and Cook reiterated Apple's goal of shipping 10 million units during 2008. In other business, Apple plans to double the number of Best Buy stores that are selling Macs within the next six months, going past an analyst prediction earlier this month that it would pull that off by early 2009. Apple sold 504,000 Macs through its own retail stores, up 64 percent from last year's first quarter, and just like last quarter, 50 percent of those buyers were new to the Mac, Cook said. All in all, it adds up to a very solid first quarter for Apple. Even the disappointing iPod sales sold had a silver lining, since Apple took in 17 percent more revenue on only 5 percent unit growth. But the guidance will not help assuage a shaky stock market. Apple is notorious for providing conservative guidance below Wall Street's expectations, but it guided well below expectations with predictions of $6.8 billion and 94 cents a share. Lots of companies would kill for that kind of performance, but Wall Street wanted more of Apple, with expectations of $7 billion in revenue and earnings per share of $1.09. Analysts asked several times whether Apple foresaw a slower second quarter based on the economic environment, and perhaps wisely, Oppenheimer declined to attach his name to a negative forecast that could send stocks plunging Wednesday. "We'll leave the economic forecasting to others. I am confident in our business, our strategy, and our products," Oppenheimer said. He may be right to be confident, but if average consumers pull back substantially on their spending, we're all going to feel it. Apple shares fell 11 percent in after-hours trading. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Apple posts nice Q1, but pessimistic on Q2 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.