https://www.cnet.com/news/latest-iphone-update-jailbroken-before-it-hits-the-ground/
Latest iPhone update jailbroken before it hits the ground - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Latest iPhone update jailbroken before it hits the ground Latest software update, timed to arrive with the European launches, has already been hacked to allow owners to install third-party applications. Tom Krazit November 9, 2007 4:20 PM PST Updated 4:20pm to include stats from German launch. As expected, Apple released the OS X 1.1.2 update for the iPhone overnight to coincide with its debut in the U.K. and Germany. As not expected, it's been sprung from jail already. Erica Sadun at The Unofficial Apple Weblog obtained jailbreaking code for the 1.1.2 update almost simultaneous with its release last night, and tests this morning confirm that it works for both the iPhone and the iPod Touch. The 1.1.2 update patched a flaw in the way OS X handles TIFF image processing, which was the way hackers gained access to the iPhone after the 1.1.1 update, and it also wiped out third-party applications just like before. The latest iPhone update from Apple won't keep third-party applications of the home page. Corinne Schulze/CNET Networks But new code for the 1.1.2 update was released last night by the same people responsible for the JailBreakMe program. It's still pretty raw, which means it's not really meant for those of us who aren't familiar with the command line. The latest hack works by applying the code to an iPhone that's still running the 1.1.1 firmware, then installing the 1.1.2 update. If you're unfamiliar with the iPhone jailbreaking saga, check out some of our past coverage. In short, "jailbreaking" your iPhone means that you're opening it up to third-party applications without Apple's authorization. Apple plans to release a software developer's kit in February that will let developers and users put authorized applications on their iPhones and iPod Touches. It's not clear whether the 1.1.2 update disabled phones that had been unlocked to run on other mobile networks, as was the case the last time Apple released an iPhone update. The update has only been live for about 12 hours, and reports are still trickling in. It's pretty clear the jailbreaking dance is going to go on right up until the day that third-party applications are officially released for the iPhone. And perhaps even past that point, since it's unlikely Apple's going to sanction unlocked iPhones until it decides it's ready or it's forced to by popular demand or changes in the law. As for the European launches themselves, they appeared to go pretty smoothly despite pouring rain in the U.K. and freezing cold in Germany. Lines were definitely shorter in London and Berlin, however, than they were in San Francisco and New York, although braving the elements in November requires a bit more fortitude than doing so in June. As of this writing, the iPhone's only been on sale for an hour and a half in Germany, and 30 minutes in the U.K. UPDATE: Reuters reported that a T-Mobile official in Germany said the company sold 10,000 iPhones during the first day. Comments Culture Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Latest iPhone update jailbroken before it hits the ground Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.