https://www.cnet.com/news/yahoo-puts-local-content-on-the-map/
Yahoo puts local content on the map - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Yahoo puts local content on the map The Internet portal continues its Internet search expansion by delivering information on local points of interest, such as restaurants, hotels and parks, via its online map system. Matt Hines March 9, 2004 12:52 PM PST Internet portal Yahoo said Tuesday that it is launching a new service aimed at providing localized content to Web search users via its online map system. The SmartView service lets surfers use Yahoo Maps to view information on local points of interest, such as restaurants, hotels, parks, automatic teller machines and post offices. Along with highlighted maps, Yahoo gives details about locations, including addresses and phone numbers, pricing, Web sites and driving directions. Yahoo said it also plans to incorporate a user rating system for hotels listed on the maps. Representatives at the Sunnyvale, Calif.-based company said businesses and other locations named on its maps would be drawn from Yahoo's "Yellow Pages" section and other areas of the site, such as its travel and leisure listings. Yahoo does not plan to charge companies to be shown on the maps, but the portal does place sponsored links produced via its Overture commercial listings on other parts of the local Web pages. A quick test of local maps for the Boston area indicated that Yahoo has already added a large number of businesses--including gas stations, banks and hospitals--to its system. If visitors click on a search tool linked to each listing, SmartView provides general Web results for the highlighted location. While Yahoo representatives declined to speculate what sort of information could be added to the map pages in the future, they indicated that the company has plans to continue to build out the system and provide even more detailed resources. The move to lure Internet traffic with local results is the latest in a string of maneuvers by Yahoo meant to improve the company's position in the search engine market, where it is looking to compete more closely with segment leader Google. Last week, Yahoo launched its Content Acquisition Program, designed to index billions of documents contained in public databases commonly inaccessible to search engines--or what's called the invisible, or deep, Web. Last month, Yahoo dropped Google as the default search technology provider for its United States-based sites, as the portal continued to increase emphasis on its own capabilities. Some of these features come from an array of recently acquired companies, such as Inktomi and commercial search provider Overture Services. Yahoo also owns AltaVista and the Web search technology of Fast Search and Transfer. Yahoo's long-term goal is to regain its former distinction as the Web's dominant search engine, a mantle it enjoyed before moving further into content aggregation during the late 1990s. The company is hoping to grow its profits through the commercial search market, which has increasingly accounted for a more significant piece of Yahoo's revenue. Comments Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Yahoo puts local content on the map Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.