https://www.cnet.com/news/the-best-germ-killing-hand-soaps-from-cheap-to-luxury/
7 hand soaps to fight germs, from cheap to luxury - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. 7 hand soaps to fight germs, from cheap to luxury The best unscented, moisturizing and foaming hand washes -- and ones to ward off germs. Amanda Capritto March 9, 2020 10:41 AM PDT Tons of washing a day keeps the viruses away. Getty Images As cold and flu continue to proliferate through the cold months -- and coronavirus scares show no signs of dissipating -- washing your hands is more important than ever. Spending 20 seconds under the sink with soap is the best way to get rid of germs on your hands, and proper hand-washing still trumps hand sanitizer in terms of effectiveness. I chose these soaps based on buyer reviews, ingredients and clinical testing, value for money and my personal experience with the brands. If you're looking to stock up on hand soap to fend off the flu, stay safe as the coronavirus spreads or simply keep your hands clean, these seven hand soaps can do the trick. CNET Coronavirus Update Get all the latest on the coronavirus that's now been declared a pandemic. Read more: Get a phone sanitizer to kill germs on your screen for $60 or less All prices are accurate as of March 9, 2020. Hand soap for killing germs Softsoap Antibacterial Liquid Hand Soap Softsoap Household names are household names for a reason -- they work and people like them. Softsoap Antibacterial Liquid Hand Soap has been shown to reduce 99.9% of harmful germs, including Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) and Escherichia coli (E. coli). Reviewers on Amazon love that this soap lasts a long time (one buyer says the six-pack lasted longer than six months) and despite being an antibacterial soap, it doesn't leave your hands feeling dry, flaky or crusty. It's nice and affordable, too: A pack of six 11.25-ounce bottles is less than $20. See at Softsoap Foaming hand soap Dial Complete Antibacterial Foaming Hand Soap Dial If you're a fan of foam and still want all the microbe-murdering power, try Dial Complete Antibacterial Foaming Hand Soap. Another popular household brand name, Dial has also used clinical testing to prove its antibacterial hand soap kills up to 99.99% of germs, although the brand clarifies that the soap is tested on common household germs, as opposed to, say, a respiratory pathogen. See at Dial Luxury hand soap Grown Alchemist Hand Wash Grown Alchemist I can't say I'd spend nearly $30 on a single bottle of hand soap, but it's available for those who want to. It comes in a fancy bottle, if that helps. And the scent -- sweet orange, cedarwood and sage -- sounds lovely. It's available on Dermstore, too, which is a brand founded by a dermatologist, so may be worth the price (especially if you want a plant-based soap that's gentle on skin). Beware of knock-offs on Amazon, though! $29 at Neiman Marcus Inexpensive hand soap Dial Liquid Hand Soap Dial If luxury hand soap isn't your jam, pivot to the other end of the soap spectrum and check out Dial's basic liquid hand soap for just $1 per bottle. It's not the same as Dial Complete Antibacterial Foaming Hand Soap, covered above: Plain Dial Liquid Hand Soap doesn't have the antimicrobial agent benzalkonium chloride, but according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), antibacterial soaps don't protect you more than regular soap if you wash for the recommended 20 seconds. So go ahead and get your soap for $1! See at Dial Unscented hand soap for sensitive skin Seventh Generation Free and Clean Unscented Hand Soap Seventh Generation At just $3 per bottle, this Seventh Generation hand soap is free of dyes, fragrances or phthalates -- a steal for people with sensitive skin or those who just want a gentle, natural soap. Buyers on Amazon love the consistency of the soap (not too liquidy), that it lathers nicely and keeps skin clean but not dry or irritated. One buyer even settled on this hand soap after searching for an unscented, gentle hand soap for an entire year. Another loves it for her daughter who has eczema and can't tolerate scented soaps. See at Seventh Generation Hand soap for dry skin Puracy Natural Liquid Hand Soap Puracy Puracy uses a plant-based, organic formula developed by doctors. It doesn't contain alcohol or other antimicrobial agents, which can lead to dry skin if you wash your hands often. It also includes glycerin, aloe vera and essential oils to hydrate your skin while cleansing it. Buyers on Amazon praise the brand for helping with extremely dry hands, soothing eczema and keeping dermatitis at bay. One buyer who gets dry hands even credits Puracy with putting an end to bleeding and cracked skin. See at Puracy Natural hand soap Mrs. Meyer's Clean Day Liquid Hand Soap Mrs. Meyer's Mrs. Meyer's has become a popular brand for its subtle scents and effectiveness. I personally use Mrs. Meyer's Clean Day hand soap (as well as dish soap and household cleaners), and this brand has never failed me. The cruelty-free formula is made with mostly plant-based ingredients, including essential oils. It doesn't contain parabens or phthalates, although it does contain some surfactants -- but you can't really get away from surfactants if you want to get clean, and there's no evidence that they're harmful. See at Mrs Meyers The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Notification on Notification off Personal Care Close Discuss: 7 hand soaps to fight germs, from cheap to luxury Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.