https://www.cnet.com/news/the-good-the-bad-and-the-drm-free-9705360/
The Good, The Bad, and The DRM-Free - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In The Good, The Bad, and The DRM-Free First 'naked' album from EMI. Caroline McCarthy April 5, 2007 9:48 AM PDT myspace.com/thegoodthebadandthequeen On Monday, the face of digital music was potentially changed forever when record label EMI Group announced that it would be offering premium versions of its albums available for download, with better audio quality and no digital rights management (DRM) restrictions attached. Even more surprisingly, EMI's first partner in the endeavor is Apple's iTunes Store, which many would argue is the poster child for DRM's shortcomings. EMI's DRM-free offerings won't be available on the iTunes Store until next month, but the label has announced that the first premium album, the self-titled LP from The Good, The Bad, and the Queen is available for purchase on the band's Web site. It's in MP3 form--the iTunes Store's version will be in Apple's preferred AAC audio format. The Good, The Bad, and the Queen, as you may recall, gave a live performance prior to EMI and Apple's joint announcement on Monday. It's the latest project from British rocker Damon Albarn, of Blur and Gorillaz fame. P.S.: Just to clarify, EMI has offered several DRM-free downloads in the past. This, however, is the first "premium" one to come with the enhanced audio quality, as part of EMI's new DRM-free initiative. Comments Crave Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: The Good, The Bad, and The DRM-Free Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.