https://www.cnet.com/news/the-best-tax-deductions/
12 of the best tax deductions in 2020 - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In 12 of the best tax deductions in 2020 Give your tax bill -- and bank account -- a break by claiming these tax deductions in 2020. Dori Zinn February 13, 2020 2:53 PM PST Leer en español Getty Images Nothing can be said to be certain, Benjamin Franklin once wrote, except death and taxes. While you can't stop death, you can reduce how much you owe in taxes -- if you qualify for these benefits. There are loads of tax deductions you can claim on your tax bill, which can either reduce what you owe or increase your tax refund. You're probably already familiar with some of the most common write-offs, like property taxes, but there are many more deductions that are easily overlooked. Here are some of the best tax deductions you might be able to claim. (These deductions are aimed at those who are not self-employed -- those folks have an entirely different set of tax write-off options.) Read more: The best tax software for 2020: TurboTax, H&R Block, TaxSlayer and more 1. American Opportunity Tax Credit The AOTC is for first-time college students for their first four years of college or other higher education. If you're pursuing a degree or otherwise going to college and haven't had a felony drug conviction at the end of the tax year, you could qualify. Your modified adjusted gross income must be $80,000 a year or less to claim the full credit. If your income is between $80,000 and $90,000 you'll still receive credit but at a reduced amount. 2. Lifetime Learning Credit While the AOTC is for first-time college students, the Lifetime Learning Credit is for others pursuing higher education. To claim this credit, you, your spouse, or your dependent must pay for qualifying higher education costs. You can't claim if your MAGI is more than $67,000 and it's slowly being phased out for those who make between $57,000 and $67,000. 3. Earned Income Tax Credit If you make low-to-moderate income, the Earned Income Tax Credit reduces the amount of tax you owe. Or it could give you a refund (or increase it). The IRS typically sends letters to households that might qualify for EITC. You'll need to verify your claim, file a tax return and possibly earn the credit for previous years. Use the EITC Assistant to see if you qualify. 4. Child and Dependent Care Credit If you care for a child or another dependent in your household, you could claim this credit. The total expenses can't exceed $3,000 for one individual or $6,000 for two or more dependents. Expenses are directly related to ensuring a child or dependent's well-being and protection, especially if they are not able to physically and mentally care for themselves. 5. Saver's Credit If you make eligible contributions to your Individual Retirement Account or your employer-sponsored retirement plan -- like a 401(k) -- you may qualify for the Saver's Credit. You must be 18 years of age or older, not a full-time student and can't be claimed as a dependent on another person's tax returns. The credit rate varies depending on your adjusted gross income, but you won't earn anything if you earn more than $64,000 if you're married filing jointly or more than $32,000 as another filer. 6. Child Tax Credit The Child Tax Credit could save you up to $2,000 for each qualifying child. Each child should be under 17 years of age and must be your: Child Stepchild Foster child Sibling Step-sibling Half-sibling Grandchild Niece/Nephew Or adopted child The child must be claimed as a dependent on your tax return. Read more: How to estimate your 2020 tax refund 7. Adoption tax credit There are tax benefits in the form of an adoption tax credit that is directly for adoption-related expenses. The credit covers adoption and fees, court costs, attorney fees, traveling expenses and other expenses that are directly related to the adoption. As of 2018, the maximum dollar amount is $13,810 per child. 8. Medical and Dental Expenses Even with insurance, you might have to pay for medical expenses out of pocket. You can deduct these expenses for you, your spouse or any of your dependents, as long as the total amount exceeds 7.5% of your AGI. Possible expenses include: Fees to doctors, dentists, specialists, mental health professionals and even nontraditional medical practitioners. Hospital care, residential nursing home care and acupuncture treatments. Treatment for alcohol, drug addiction, smoking-cessation programs and prescription drugs for nicotine withdrawal and related addiction needs. Payments for insulin, eyeglasses, contact lenses, hearing aids, crutches, wheelchairs, guide dogs and other service animals. Funeral expenses, over-the-counter medications and most cosmetic surgery can't be deducted. 9. Residential Energy Credit For the energy-efficient homeowner, you could claim a residential energy credit. The credit includes: Energy-efficient windows and doors Roofs Insulation Energy-efficient heating and AC systems Water heaters Biomass stoves Qualifying solar electric property and solar water heaters are also included. As of 2017, the credit has a lifetime limit of $500, but different improvements carry different weights to earn the credit. Read more: Electric-car tax credit issued improperly to thousands, audit finds 10. Student Loan Interest Deduction Paying back your student loans can be daunting and at times expensive, but you can catch a little break come tax time with the student loan interest deduction. If you paid interest on a qualifying student loan for you, your spouse or another dependent, you may qualify for the tax credit. You can claim the deduction as an adjustment to your income rather than an itemized deduction. You'll be able to deduct either $2,500 or the actual amount of interest you paid during the year, whichever is lesser. 11. Health Savings Account contribution If you have a health savings account, contributions made to your HSA are not subjected to federal income tax. You can also claim a tax deduction for making contributions to your HSA. Contribution limits vary by your high-deductible health plan, your age and the date you become eligible. 12. Charitable Contribution Deductions Charitable contributions are one of the most common ways to get a tax deduction. You can deduct contributions of money or property you donated to qualified organizations, but you'll need to itemize your deductions. In most cases, you can deduct up to 50% of your AGI, but there are some cases where you might be limited to 20 or 30%. Originally published last year. Comments Notification on Notification off Personal Finance Close Discuss: 12 of the best tax deductions in 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.