https://www.cnet.com/news/apple-patches-10-iphone-flaws/
Apple patches 10 iPhone flaws - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Apple patches 10 iPhone flaws Seven of the updates affect the MobileSafari browser within iPhones. Robert Vamosi September 27, 2007 2:25 PM PDT Apple today released 10 iPhone security updates, including 7 within the MobileSafari browser. The update is available only through iTunes and is not available from the Apple Downloads page. The version users should see within their iPhone after applying this update should be 1.1.1 (3A109a). Further, Apple refuses to discuss pending security vulnerabilities not patched here, stating "For the protection of our customers, Apple does not disclose, discuss, or confirm security issues until a full investigation has occurred and any necessary patches or releases are available." Bluetooth This patch affects users of Apple iPhone and addresses the vulnerability in CVE-2007-3753. By sending maliciously crafted Service Discovery Protocol (SDP) packets to an iPhone with Bluetooth enabled, an attacker within range may be able to trigger the issue, which may in turn lead to unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution. Apple credits Kevin Mahaffey and John Hering of Flexilis Mobile Security for reporting this vulnerabliity. Mail man-in-the-middle attack This patch affects users of Apple iPhone and addresses the vulnerability in CVE-2007-3754. When Mail is configured to use SSL for incoming and outgoing connections, it does not warn the user when the identity of the mail server has changed or cannot be trusted and could lead to a man-in-the-middle attack. Mail telephone link This patch affects users of Apple iPhone and addresses the vulnerability in CVE-2007-3755. "By enticing a user to follow a telephone link in a mail message, an attacker can cause iPhone to place a call without user confirmation." Apple credits Andi Baritchi of McAfee for reporting this vulnerability. Safari 1 This patch affects users of Apple iPhone and addresses the vulnerability in CVE-2007-3756. "A design issue in Safari allows a Web page to read the URL that is currently being viewed in its parent window. By enticing a user to visit a maliciously crafted Web page, an attacker may be able to obtain the URL of an unrelated page." Apple credits Michal Zalewski of Google and Secunia Research for reporting this issue. Safari 2 This patch affects users of Apple iPhone and addresses the vulnerability in CVE-2007-3757. "Safari supports telephone ("tel:") links to dial phone numbers. When a telephone link is selected, Safari will confirm that the number should be dialed. A maliciously crafted telephone link may cause a different number to be displayed during confirmation than the one actually dialed. Exiting Safari during the confirmation process may result in unintentional confirmation." Apple credits Billy Hoffman and Bryan Sullivan of HP Security Labs (formerly SPI Labs) and Eduardo Tang for reporting this issue. Safari 3 This patch affects users of Apple iPhone and addresses the vulnerability in CVE-2007-3758. "A cross-site scripting vulnerability exists in Safari that allows malicious Web sites to set JavaScript window properties of Web sites served from a different domain. By enticing a user to visit a maliciously crafted Web site, an attacker can trigger the issue, resulting in getting or setting the window status and location of pages served from other Web sites." Apple credits Michal Zalewski of Google for reporting this issue. Safari 4 This patch affects users of Apple iPhone and addresses the vulnerability in CVE-2007-3759. "Safari can be configured to enable or disable JavaScript. This preference does not take effect until the next time Safari is restarted. This usually occurs when the iPhone is restarted. This may mislead users into believing that JavaScript is disabled when it is not." Safari 5 This patch affects users of Apple iPhone and addresses the vulnerability in CVE-2007-3760. "A cross-site scripting issue in Safari allows a maliciously crafted Web site to bypass the same-origin policy using "frame" tags. By enticing a user to visit a maliciously crafted Web page, an attacker can trigger the issue, which may lead to the execution of JavaScript in the context of another site." Apple credits Michal Zalewski of Google and Secunia Research for reporting this issue. Safari 6 This patch affects users of Apple iPhone and addresses the vulnerability in CVE-2007-3761. "A cross-site scripting issue in Safari allows JavaScript events to be associated with the wrong frame. By enticing a user to visit a maliciously crafted Web page, an attacker may cause the execution of JavaScript in the context of another site." Safari 7 This patch affects users of Apple iPhone and addresses the vulnerability in CVE-2007-4671. "An issue in Safari allows content served over HTTP to alter or access content served over HTTPS in the same domain. By enticing a user to visit a maliciously crafted Web page, an attacker may cause the execution of JavaScript in the context of HTTPS Web pages in that domain." Apple credits Keigo Yamazaki of Little Earth Corporation for reporting this issue. Comments Security Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Apple patches 10 iPhone flaws Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.