https://www.cnet.com/news/google-siblings-coronavirus-website-has-led-to-over-130-tests-so-far/
Google sibling Verily: Coronavirus website has led to over 130 tests so far - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Google sibling Verily: Coronavirus website has led to over 130 tests so far For now, the website is limited to testing only in the San Francisco Bay Area. Richard Nieva March 20, 2020 4:25 PM PDT Leer en español Listen - 01:44 A testing site in San Mateo, California. Getty Images For the most up-to-date news and information about the coronavirus pandemic, visit the WHO website. It's been less than a week since Verily, the life sciences arm of Google parent Alphabet, launched its coronavirus screening website. As of Thursday evening, the online tool has led to more than 130 tests, Verily said. There are more than 350 additional tests scheduled for this week. The website, which went live late Sunday, is hosted through Verily's Project Baseline, an initiative to advance clinical research. The site lets people in the San Francisco Bay Area take online screener surveys to see if they should go to testing sites in Santa Clara county or San Mateo county for examinations. "The early days of the pilot have been focused on an end-to-end protocol and playbook that can scale," Verily said in a blog post. "A critical part of this process is adjusting the screening and scheduling of individuals to prioritize those at highest risk." Coronavirus updates FDA warns at-home coronavirus tests are unauthorized and fraudulent Zoom has been a chaotic beacon of light during the coronavirus lockdown FBI says beware of stimulus-package scams Snowden says government surveillance amid COVID-19 could be long lasting Before the website launched, the project was the subject of major confusion last week after Google and President Donald Trump made separate, conflicting announcements. Trump had described a website that people all across the country could use to get information about coronavirus testing. After the announcement, which reportedly caught Google off-guard, the company said Verily was working on a tool, in its early stages, focused on just the Bay Area. The website offers a screening questionnaire that asks people to list their symptoms. On Thursday, Verily said over 12,000 people had completed the screeners. The point of the tool is to lighten the load on hospitals as they deal with the virus. Verily said it eventually wants to scale the program. "Our team is working in partnership with local, state, and federal public health officials to rapidly establish a robust public health delivery framework that could extend to other sites," the company said. Before the website launched on Sunday, California Gov. Gavin Newsom said he believed it could be a "national model" for coronavirus testing. Health and Wellness See All • reading Google sibling Verily: Coronavirus website has led to over 130 tests so far • Mar 27 How to effectively clean the inside of your car if you're worried about COVID-19 • Mar 21 This is the gear you need to work from home • Mar 20 Google I/O is fully canceled, after earlier nixing the in-person event Comments Health and Wellness Coronavirus Google Alphabet Inc. Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Google sibling Verily: Coronavirus website has led to over 130 tests so far Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.