https://www.cnet.com/news/what-are-blue-light-blocking-glasses/
Do blue light blocking glasses actually work? - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Do blue light blocking glasses actually work? They claim to help stop headaches and keep us from staying up too late, but are they worth the money? Sarah Mitroff September 13, 2019 4:02 PM PDT Blue-light blocking glasses from the brand Felix Gray. Angela Lang/CNET I've been staring at screens my entire life, from my parent's early Gateway machine, to Macintosh desktops at school, to my iPhone, iPad and MacBook today. I'm obviously not the only one. The average office worker spends 1,700 hours per year(!) in front of a computer screen. And that's just while we're at the office -- we're also addicted to using our phones all day long. All of that screen time seems to come with various ill effects on our bodies and minds, such as eye strain, headaches and insomnia. To combat those problems, you can pick up a pair of computer glasses -- also called blue-light blocking glasses -- which promise everything from eliminating eye strain to helping you sleep better. Read more: These Transitions contact lenses make me look like an alien -- here's why I love them | Best places to buy prescription glasses online in 2019 Once hard to find, there are now plenty of stylish options from companies like Felix Gray and Peepers. You can even get blue-light blocking lenses for your prescription glasses. So do blue-light blocking glasses really make a difference for all of us who stare at a screen 8-plus hours per day? The answer isn't as straightforward as yes or no. Now playing: Watch this: Tech neck is a real thing (and I have it) 2:13 Is staring at a screen for hours each day bad? The short answer? Probably. Doctors and researchers are largely focused on two issues that arise from our ever-growing screen time: Digital eye strain and blue light exposure. According to the American Optometric Association, digital eye strain is "a group of eye- and vision-related problems that result from prolonged computer, tablet, e-reader and cell phone use." Those issues range from blurry vision and dry eyes, to headaches and neck pain. By staring at screens all day, we're also exposed to blue light waves, which are said to cause a myriad of issues. There is conflicting evidence about how blue light exposure affects your eyes, but doctors and researches are in agreement that it does affect your circadian rhythm. More on that below. What is blue light? All visible light we humans see contains the entire spectrum of the rainbow, from red to violet. Within that spectrum are blue light waves, which are said to help us stay alert and upbeat. What gives off blue light? Any source of visible light gives off blue light waves, whether it's the sun, a touchscreen or a light bulb. We get plenty of blue light waves each day from the sun, but after dark we're still exposed to it from many artificial sources. How does blue light affect sleep? When the sun goes down, the lack of light signals our bodies to start producing melatonin, the hormone responsible for making us fall asleep. Before the advent of artificial light, the sun regulated our sleep schedules. But today, we're exposed to light all day and into the night. While exposure to any light waves after dark delays our bodies' production of melatonin, blue light waves can be especially problematic because they keep us alert. On the other hand, blue light can help us overcome sleep issues by disrupting our usual circadian rhythm. The Lumos mask, for example, uses light therapy to mitigate the affects of jet lag. All about sleep CES 2019: This smart gadget winds you down for bed, no internet necessary The invisible reason you're not sleeping well Wondering how well you slept last night? Just ask Alexa These sleep gadgets are way weirder than counting sheep 16 Photos So, what does my phone or computer screen have to do with this? Compared to fluorescent and incandescent bulbs, LEDs can give off a significant amount of blue light. Unfortunately for all of us who cozy up to our tech after sunset, LEDs are used in countless smartphone, tablet and TV screens. Tech products that have a LCD screen, like laptops, iPads ($559 at QVC) and older iPhones, still use LEDs to backlight their displays. Is blue light harmful? Blue light has been linked to all sorts of issues, from causing digital eye strain to making us blind. There's a lot of conflicting evidence, however, about exactly how harmful (or not) it really is. The American Academy of Ophthalmology says that there's no evidence that the blue light specifically given off by screens will cause eye damage, as we are exposed to blue light all day from the sun. Peeper's blue-light blocking glasses. Angela Lang/CNET Talking to CNET, Dr. Raj Maturi, a clinical spokesperson for the American Academy of Ophthalmology, explained, "During the day, you get 10 times as much blue light from the sun as you do from your computer screen. Our bodies have evolved to deal with this light." However, research compiled by the AOA indicates that prolonged exposure to blue light (such as sitting in front of a computer all day) might cause damage to your retina -- the innermost layer of your eye that sends signals to your brain to process what you are seeing. Prevent Blindness, a nonprofit dedicated to mitigating vision loss, also says that early research suggests that blue light can contribute to eye strain. What are blue-light blocking glasses? Blue-light blocking glasses have filters in their lenses that block or absorb blue light, and in some cases UV light, from getting through. That means if you use these glasses when looking at a screen, especially after dark, they can help reduce exposure to blue light waves that can keep you awake. Many blue-light blocking glasses you can buy also claim to help reduce eye strain. Most are meant to be worn during the day while working in front of a computer, and at night to prevent the blue light from screens from keeping us awake. Now playing: Watch this: 7 ways to get better sleep with tech 2:03 Should I get blue-light blocking glasses? It depends -- do you want or need to look at your phone after dark, and having trouble falling asleep? There is ample evidence that blue light affects when our bodies create melatonin, so if you use screens long after sundown, these glasses might help stop you from staying up later than you want. If you deal with digital eye strain, however, there is a easy exercise you should try before you invest in new glasses. Use the 20-20-20 rule: every 20 minutes, look at something at least 20 feet away for 20 seconds. The idea is that this helps break your focus from your screen, allowing your eye muscles to relax and stave off eye strain. As for me, I'm writing this article wearing a pair of blue-light blocking glasses that I've used off and on for the last few months. While I'm not 100 percent certain that they are helping my eyes, I do notice my eyes feel less tired at the end of the day. Could it be a placebo? Sure. But I'll keep wearing them to find out. 2019 movies to geek out over 77 Photos The CNET Guide to Smart Living: Everything you need to know to live smarter. Smart Home 101: How to create your own smart home. The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Health and Wellness Notification on Notification off How to Close Discuss: Do blue light blocking glasses actually work? Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.