https://www.cnet.com/news/best-instant-pot-to-buy-2020-instapot-pot-pressure-cooker-compared/
The best Instant Pot of 2020 compared - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. The best Instant Pot of 2020 compared Confused about which model is best for you? We've got the ultimate guide to what makes each Instant Pot unique. Molly Price March 22, 2020 11:57 PM PDT Leer en español Best overall Instant Pot Duo 7-in-1 Jump to details See at Amazon Best budget option Instant Pot Lux 6-in-1 (V3) Jump to details See at Walmart Best for slow cooking Instant Pot Ultra 10-in-1 Jump to details See at Amazon Best smart home integration Instant Pot Smart Wi-Fi Jump to details See at Amazon Instant Pot has taken the kitchen appliances market by storm over the last few years, and with so many cooking functions, a vast amount of free one-pot recipes available online and a cult-like following, you might be ready to see what all the fuss is about and get one yourself. With a dizzying 17 models on the Instant Pot market, we're here to help you figure out the best Instant Pot for your cooking needs. While these appliances all look overwhelmingly similar on the outside, all Instant Pots aren't created equal. Different models are better for different kinds of cooking, whether you're using it as a slow cooker, steamer or for sauteing. If you're looking for an Instant Pot that performs specific food functions such as cooking eggs, making yogurt or even canning fruit, you'll need to know which models can actually do that. Here are our favorite Instant Pot models for getting meals on the table in a jiffy. Read more: Does the Instant Pot destroy nutrients in your food while cooking? Best overall Instant Pot Duo 7-in-1 Instant Pot via Amazon The Instant Pot Duo 7-in-1 is the company's most popular series and for good reason. It comes with seven cooking functions: pressure cooker, slow cooker, rice cooker, steamer, saute, yogurt making and warmer. You can buy the Duo in three sizes: 3-quart ($80), 6-quart ($100) and 8-quart ($140). It's the most affordable model to sport the yogurt and poultry programs as well as the option to pressure cook on high or low. Programs included: Rice, Bean/Chili, Poultry, Meat/Stew, Multigrain, Porridge, Soup/Broth, Steam, Manual or Pressure Cooking What it doesn't have: Cake, Sterilize, Egg, Ultra and Canning Lowest price to date (8 qt.): $65 at Amazon (Dec. 2, 2019) See at Amazon Read more: The best paleo Instant Pot recipes Best budget option Instant Pot Lux 6-in-1 (V3) Tyler Lizenby/CNET Contrary to its name, the Lux V3 series is the most basic Instant Pot when it comes to cooking features and is the best Instant Pot for a budget. It includes a pressure cooker, slow cooker, rice cooker, saute, steamer and warmer. You can buy it in 3-quart ($65), 6-quart ($80) and 8-quart ($110) sizes. With the Lux, you can cook food on high pressure for up to four hours and keep meals warm for up to 10 hours manually or automatically. However, there is no low pressure option for this cooking model. It's also the only model without lid holders (those handy slits in the left and right handles that can support your lid upright). The Lux is a base model, to be sure, but if you're on a budget it has plenty of capability to create easy recipe dishes from beef stew and instant pot chicken to beans and potatoes. Programs included: Rice, Meat/Stew, Multigrain, Soup/Broth, Steam, Manual or Pressure Cooking, Porridge, Cake and Egg What it doesn't have: Sterilize, Ultra, Canning, Bean/Chili and Poultry Lowest price to date (8 qt.): $55 at Amazon (Nov. 15, 2019) See at Walmart Best for slow cooking Instant Pot Ultra 10-in-1 Instant Pot The Ultra series offers upgrades from the previous models. You can cook delicious recipe dishes with high and low pressure for up to six hours, two hours more than the Lux and Duo series. It's available in $120 3-quart, $150 6-quart and $180 8-quart sizes and is the best Instant Pot for slow cooking. The Ultra name comes from the added option to fine tune parameters like temperature. You can specify temperature to a single degree from 104 to 208 degrees Fahrenheit. You can also dial in specific values for cooking time, pressure level and delay time. Programs included: Rice, Bean/Chili, Meat/Stew, Multigrain, Porridge, Soup/Broth, Cake, Sterilize, Steam, Egg, Manual or Pressure Cooking, and Ultra What it doesn't have: Poultry and Canning Lowest price to date (8 qt.): $95 at Amazon (Nov. 28, 2019) See at Amazon Read more: The best coolers you can buy this summer Best smart home integration Instant Pot Smart Wi-Fi Tyler Lizenby/CNET You may remember the first smart Instant Pot, the Instant Pot Smart, which was powered by Bluetooth. The company discontinued that model and replaced it with the $150 Instant Pot Smart Wi-Fi. This tech-forward multicooker connects to your phone's Instant Pot control panel app for remote monitoring of your cooker, recipe customization and notifications. Instant Pot Smart Wi-Fi is also controllable via voice commands through both Alexa and Google Assistant. It's important to note that this model is only available in a 6-quart size, so if that's not a good fit for you, it may not be the best Instant Pot for your cooking needs. Programs included: Rice, Bean/Chili, Meat/Stew, Multigrain, Porridge, Soup/Broth, Cake, Steam, Egg and Manual or Pressure Cooking What it doesn't have: Poultry, Canning, Ultra and Sterilize Lowest price to date (6 qt.): $90 at Amazon (Nov. 26, 2018) See at Amazon Which one is best for you? Food-specific modes and options will be the difference maker when it comes to picking the best Instant Pot for your cooking needs, or the one you'll be able to use the most. If you want to venture into making your own yogurt, or if you love hard-boiled eggs, it's worth it to pay a bit more for an Instant Pot that can do those things. When it comes to choosing the right size, Instant Pot recommends a 3-quart model for one or two people. Families of six or fewer will likely be happy with the 6-quart multicooker. If you have a large household or host large groups often, consider springing for an 8-quart model. If you're still not sure which model will be the best Instant Pot for your kitchen, take a look at Instant Pot's product comparison chart or their guide to choosing the right cooker. At the end of the day, all of these models offer the basic pressure cooking and slow cooking modes Instant Pot is known for performing so well. Now playing: Watch this: Instant Pot Smart Wifi connects your pressure cooker 1:41 How to make tasty pots of rice in your new Instant Pot 8 Photos Read more: 9 Instant Pot accessories for healthy eating Best air fryers of 2020 The best meal kit delivery services of 2020 The best food processors of 2020 Best Dutch oven in 2020 Best grills of 2020: Top charcoal, gas and kamado models The best kamado grills: Big Green Egg, Kamado Joe, Char-Griller and more Best gas grills of 2020 Originally published earlier. CNET Holiday Gift Guide 2019 Holiday gift guide 2019: CNET editors' top picks Stocking stuffers: Best tech gifts under $25 Best holiday gifts for under $50 Best holiday gifts under $100 for 2019 Best holiday gifts under $250 for 2019 Best holiday gifts under $500 for 2019 Comments CNET Smart Home Small Appliances Health and Wellness Amazon Notification on Notification off Smart home Close Discuss: The best Instant Pot of 2020 compared Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.