https://www.cnet.com/news/samsung-has-the-most-to-gain-from-huaweis-loss-of-google-android-support/
Samsung has the most to gain while Huawei's access to Google is still up in the air - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Samsung has the most to gain while Huawei's access to Google is still up in the air Commentary: Although the US government slightly relaxed its order to ban Huawei, the phone-maker's future with Google is still undecided. Jessica Dolcourt May 21, 2019 9:17 AM PDT Angela Lang/CNET Huawei's ambitions to unseat Samsung as the world's largest phone brand by 2020 came crashing to the ground this week following a report that Google will pull support for Huawei's Android phones. Sidelining its most enthusiastic rival could prove to be a windfall for Samsung -- assuming the blacklist status lasts. The measures are already softening. On Monday, the US Commerce Department temporarily restored Huawei's ability to service existing phones until Aug. 19. But Samsung still has time to take advantage of its rival's negative press and Huawei's relationship with Google is still extremely fluid. Heeding an executive order signed by President Donald Trump last week, Google has cut Huawei off from a longtime business relationship that gives the Chinese brand, and other phone-makers, access to Android OS updates, Reuters first reported. The initial order would largely deprive Huawei of security updates as well as Google services such as Gmail, Google Assistant, the Google Play store, Google Maps and Google Search. In addition, Google will withhold technical support for future phones. Intel, Qualcomm and Broadcom are also reportedly toeing the US party line, according to Bloomberg. On Monday morning, the Chinese company expressed dismay about Google's decision. "Huawei has made substantial contributions to the development and growth of Android around the world," a Huawei spokeswoman said in an emailed statement. "As one of Android's key global partners, we have worked closely with their open-source platform to develop an ecosystem that has benefitted both users and the industry." Now playing: Watch this: Google cuts off Huawei, Avengers surpasses Avatar 1:27 It also sought to reassure customers. "Huawei will continue to provide security updates and after-sales services to all existing Huawei and Honor smartphone and tablet products, covering those that have been sold and that are still in stock globally," said the company spokeswoman. "We will continue to build a safe and sustainable software ecosystem, in order to provide the best experience for all users globally." Huawei's loss could be Samsung's gain if Android fans turn their backs on Huawei's future phones for not having the tools and apps people rely on every day. Read: Huawei could survive without Android, but not very well Huawei phones are out-innovating Samsung's Huawei has been on a tear. Sales are up around the world despite the brand being shut out of the US, and its best phones are out-innovating Samsung's Galaxy S10 flagships. The Huawei P30 Pro has an incredible zoom camera lens and a standalone night mode that takes crystal-clear low-light shots. Meanwhile, Samsung lacks the night mode that Huawei and Google Pixel phones have, and it has a much less flexible zoom lens. Samsung is also in hot water with slow sales and screen engineering issues that have delayed the release of its foldable Galaxy Fold phone after early review units experienced malfunctioning screens. Political interests that effectively take Huawei's smartphone business out of the game will damage the brand's ability to sell phones outside of China, giving Samsung a chance to prop up its position in Europe and the rest of the world. iPhone XS Max vs. Huawei P30 Pro sample photos 23 Photos Samsung could also benefit from a Huawei plan to delay its own foldable phone, the Mate X, whose screen bends around the outside. You can use it from either side while folded, and it opens into an 8-inch tablet. Google's Android software, including the next version, called Android Q, supports foldable phones by helping apps easily jump from a "folded" screen orientation to an "unfolded" one. It isn't clear if Huawei uses Google's software to run the Mate X, or if it needs Google's support since the Mate X isn't being sold yet. However, if Huawei were to pause production while sorting out its Android troubles -- the Mate X is slated for summer -- Samsung could increase its lead in the innovative foldable space. There's also a possibility Huawei may not feel it needs Google's Android support to keep its business afloat. Earlier this year Huawei said it's developing its own OS in case the telecom giant needs to abandon Android and Windows on its phones and hybrid computers, according to German outlet Die Welt. Huawei was also reportedly working on its own app store to compete with Google's Play store. Now playing: Watch this: Our Galaxy Fold didn't break. Here's what's good and... 10:12 "We are complying with the order and reviewing the implications," Google said in a brief statement on Sunday evening. "For users of our services, Google Play and the security protections from Google Play Protect will continue to function on existing Huawei devices." That means Huawei will be able to continue selling current phones and tablets with Android support, such as the P30 and P30 Pro. Huawei's Honor brand -- which includes the Honor 20 Lite -- will be affected by the executive order. Huawei isn't cut off from Android completely. It can continue to use a version of Android, called AOSP (Android Open Source Project) when Google releases that build publicly, but that will put Huawei months behind the competition. Google's partners get early access to Android builds so they can make the operating system work as smoothly as possible for buyers. Samsung remains an early-access partner. Read: Galaxy S10 5G gets insane data speeds on Verizon's new network Now playing: Watch this: P30 Pro and Galaxy S10 cameras compared 5:41 What's going on with Huawei and the US? The Trump administration's move against Huawei is the latest salvo in a series of escalating security concerns that stretch back to 2012, when Congress warned carriers against using Huawei's networking equipment over fears that Huawei could use this infrastructure to spy on American companies and citizens for the Chinese government. The fact that companies can be used to damage foreign governments highlights tech companies' potent role in politics. The action to block Huawei's access to Android is considered by some to be a bargaining chip in the US' increasingly tense trade relationship with China. Last year Trump used a similar tactic against Chinese electronics giant ZTE, crippling its business. Trump lifted that ban last August. Huawei said that Google's desertion will hamper the US' rollout of 5G data networks, according to Reuters, and only slightly slow Huawei's global growth. Huawei is the world's largest telecoms equipment manufacturer, and the world's second-largest phone-maker, behind Samsung. Samsung sells displays and chips alongside mobile devices, but isn't a player in networking equipment. Read: Where to buy the Huawei P30 if you live in the US The Huawei Mate X phone unfolds into an 8-inch tablet. Andrew Hoyle/CNET Is Huawei only temporarily cut off? Samsung's gains might be short-lived if the ban against Huawei proves temporary. Huawei has already been granted a partial reprieve to update existing phones, but the future of upcoming Android devices is unclear. Precedent has shown that Trump is willing to reverse his position on Chinese companies if certain conditions are met. It's possible that the US government could walk back the blacklisting depending on the reactions of China's leaders. We saw similar results with ZTE, another Chinese brand that the US banned for seven years for failing to punish employees for breaking a sanction prohibiting the sale of US equipment to Iran and North Korea. ZTE, which relied on equipment produced in the US, was effectively shut down until Trump tweeted an about-face to work with ZTE on lifting the ban. If trade negotiations continue to unravel, Samsung has a chance to push forward in 2019 with its most effective Android rival weakened. But if Huawei phones are brought back into the fold with the US government's support -- and this would likely affect just the phone business -- then Samsung's chief rival would continue to challenge the South Korean titan for mobile dominance. Samsung didn't respond to a request for comment. CNET's Katie Collins contributed to this report. Originally published May 20 at 4:05 a.m. PT. Updated 5:17 a.m. PT: Added Huawei's statement. Updated 2:55 p.m. PT: Added news of softened restrictions. Updated May 21 at 9:11 a.m. PT: Added more details. Huawei P30 Pro's four rear cameras from every angle 40 Photos Comments Phones ZTE 5G Google Huawei Samsung Verizon Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Samsung has the most to gain while Huawei's access to Google is still up in the air Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.