https://www.cnet.com/news/apple-next-iphone-update-could-break-unlocked-phones/
Apple: Next iPhone update could break unlocked phones - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Apple: Next iPhone update could break unlocked phones If you hacked your iPhone to run it on a network other than AT&T's, the next iPhone software update could leave you with an iBrick, Apple said Monday. Tom Krazit September 25, 2007 9:50 AM PDT Apple issued a statement Monday afternoon warning users of unlocked iPhones that the next software update it ships will probably break their phones. It's not clear how many people have unlocked their iPhone to run on networks other than AT&T's, but there has definitely been some interest among early adopters who want no part of AT&T's network. Most of those folks were always operating under the assumption that Apple might relock their iPhones with future software updates, but were they expecting Apple to actually disable the phone? Hacked your iPhone? The next software update from Apple could break your phone. CNET Networks "Apple has discovered that many of the unauthorized iPhone unlocking programs available on the Internet cause irreparable damage to the iPhone's software, which will likely result in the modified iPhone becoming permanently inoperable when a future Apple-supplied iPhone software update is installed," the company said in a statement issued after the close of the stock market. "Apple strongly discourages users from installing unauthorized unlocking programs on their iPhones. Users who make unauthorized modifications to the software on their iPhone violate their iPhone software license agreement and void their warranty. The permanent inability to use an iPhone due to installing unlocking software is not covered under the iPhone's warranty." This is not going to sit well with the fringe early adopter who, having already suffered through the price cut debacle, now faces the prospect of a dead iPhone. The probable solution, as discussed earlier today by our new friends at iPhone Atlas, involves restoring the iPhone to the factory default settings before installing the new update. The next update will be released later this week to allow iPhone owners to access the new Wi-Fi Music Store introduced earlier this month. That assumes, I guess, that the iPhone hackers will probably find some way around the new update next week, and that's probably not that much of a stretch. But it seems Apple is hell-bent on making sure too many people don't make unauthorized modifications to its iBaby, which in some ways, makes sense to me. This is a brand new product, and even Apple may not totally be aware of the problems that could arise from willy-nilly hacking. So, be forewarned: if you hacked your iPhone, you might want to hold off on installing this week's update unless you're willing to go back to using AT&T's network. Update: The Unofficial Apple Weblog thinks that doing a factory restore might not be enough to reverse the unlocking process. They've posted a detailed, step-by-step process for "re-locking" your iPhone that might make you wince unless you're handy with code. Check it out here, but TUAW warns this is still in the early testing stages. Comments Culture Notification on Notification off Tech Industry Close Discuss: Apple: Next iPhone update could break unlocked phones Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.