https://www.cnet.com/news/bt-vision-future-of-tv-or-a-cheapo-pvr/
BT Vision: Future of TV or a cheapo PVR? - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In BT Vision: Future of TV or a cheapo PVR? BT unveiled its Vision this morning: it's a Freeview PVR with pay-per-view downloadable content Nick Hide November 13, 2007 2:11 AM PST BT has a Vision. You can tell it's important because of the capital V. It's going to be a revolution in television -- in BT's words it will be 'the next generation of television'. Crave tootled along to the launch this morning. The reality, as always, was somewhat more prosaic. BT Vision, it turns out, is a service that uses a Freeview PVR called the V-box. And it's a pretty cheap-looking PVR at that. But it's 'free', in the TalkTalk sense of the word -- you pay £90 for connection and installation -- and it gives you access to a limited but growing collection of pay-per-view content, including movies (at £2.99 for 24 hours), TV shows, concerts and Premiership football from Setanta. Now, this is a pretty good deal. £90 for a PVR is cheap. The V-box, made by Philips, is not the prettiest box we've ever seen, but the interface is clean and easy to use and features a nifty search function, as well as the usual push-to-record and record series functions. It can record 80 hours of TV from Freeview over the air -- pay-per-view is downloaded through an Internet connection. It also has HDMI output, which will allow for high-definition content at some unspecified point in the future. The remote control looks like a halibut, though. Here's the catch: you have to have a BT Home Hub and therefore get your broadband (at least 2Mbps) from BT, and to get the V-box 'free' you have to 're-contract', which sounds painful, but means sign up for another year. This is no hardship: we've used the Hub for some time and it's a simple and fairly reliable way of getting wireless Internet. But if you use another ISP, you'll have to change to share BT's Vision. The pay-per-view content, while reasonably priced, is thin on the ground at the moment. But with the low-cost PVR functionality as the service's main selling point, we expect it to attract enough takers to make it a worthwhile proposition for other content providers. By the end of next year, it should be fully up and running. BT says it has received considerable interest from its existing broadband customers, and expects to have sent V-boxes to those tens of thousands who have already signed up by March. By the end of 2007, it expects to have a self-install version, which will be just £30 (engineer installation is compulsory at the moment). You can sign up at BT's Web site. -NH Update: A full review of BT Vision is now live. Update 2: BT has introduced a self-install version of BT Vision, which costs just £30. In response to customer feedback, the V-box now comes with a pair of Comtrend Powerline adaptors, which plug into wall power sockets and carry the video signal from the Home Hub to the V-box across your domestic power lines. This means you can have the Hub and V-box in different rooms. Comments Home Entertainment Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: BT Vision: Future of TV or a cheapo PVR? Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.