https://www.cnet.com/news/best-sausages-for-holiday-hosting/
The best sausages to order online for 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. The best sausages to order online for 2020 Bring on the delicious meats! David Watsky March 25, 2020 12:02 PM PDT Bratwurst links (three-pack) Jump to details $10 at Porter Road Kurobuta pork sausage Jump to details $15 at Snake River Farms Wagyu Summer sausage Jump to details $14 at KC Cattle Co. Bratwurst cooked with Mikkeller Butcher Bier (four-pack) Jump to details $9 at Schaller & Weber Sausage making kit Jump to details $75 at Man Crates Lamb merguez sausage (six-pack) Jump to details $18 at Porter Road Omaha Steaks Good Times Grill Pack Jump to details $45 at Omaha Steaks Vermont uncured summer sausage (three-pack) Jump to details $21 at Boxed Vegan sausage (four-pack) Jump to details $11 at Mercato Show more (4 items) When it comes to delicious and simple eats, it doesn't get much easier than sausage. Slice up some fancy links as part of a swanky charcuterie board or serve sauteed Italian-style sausage with peppers and onions over crusty rolls for a drool-inducing sandwich. The beauty of sausage is that it's generally preseasoned with herbs and spices (and garlic and pepper and so many other seasonings), which means less work and more time to enjoy a feast fit for a king. Not to mention they give you a bit more bang for your buck -- generally speaking, these delectable meat products cost much less, pound for pound, than fancier cuts of steak or pork. There are so many types of great tasting sausages available, and with full-service online butchers and mail order purveyors, you can get just about any kind you want -- chorizo, brats, merguez, Polish sausages, Italian sausages and more -- delivered straight to your door. And that's all the better in this time of social distancing, after all. KC Cattle Co. Now, these aren't your healthiest food options, we'll be the first to admit. But if you need an occasional treat during this time of coronavirus quarantine, read on to find how you can score some of the best sausages online. Read more: The best meat delivery and subscription services Bratwurst links (three-pack) Porter Road Porter Road is one of our favorite new meat delivery services offering a huge selection of sausages of all kinds. These brats are made with pasture-raised pork, eggs and fresh cream and seasoned with white pepper, nutmeg and ginger. $10 at Porter Road Kurobuta pork sausage Snake River Farms Snake River Farms' loose pork sausage is made from high-end purebred Berkshire Kurobuta pigs, and goes for $15 per pound. Brown this savory spiced ground sausage into your favorite chili or serve over hoagies with onions, peppers and mushrooms, and some good old fashioned American cheese. This is the food you dream about. $15 at Snake River Farms Wagyu Summer sausage KC Cattle Co. KC Cattle Co. is a butcher delivery service specializing in Wagyu beef products. The Wagyu Summer sausage comes in two flavors, classic and jalapeno & cheese (for those who like their sausages spicy), and taste amazing when sliced with crackers and a soft cheese. $14 at KC Cattle Co. Bratwurst cooked with Mikkeller Butcher Bier (four-pack) Schaller & Weber Schaller & Weber collaborated with NYC German-style brewer Mikkeller on these Butcher Bier Brats made with Mikkeller NYC Butcher Bier. A twist on the company's classic bratwurst, these tasty pork brats pack a full Oktoberfest-style flavor punch. $9 at Schaller & Weber Sausage making kit Man Crates For the guy or gal looking to go that extra sausage-y step and make their own links, this Man Crate comes with everyone you'll need (except actual meat). The kit includes a NorPro Delux meat grinder and mincer, sausage casings and two sausage spice blends -- maple apple spice and merguez spice -- plus a home detail brush. Making sausages was never so easy (or tasty!) $75 at Man Crates Lamb merguez sausage (six-pack) Porter Road These lamb merguez sausage links are seriously packed with flavor (and some heat, too). These are great on their own, with toothpicks or diced into a nice short pasta dish with tomato and feta cheese. We like a little variety in how we enjoy our meat products! $18 at Porter Road Read more on Chowhound Condiment showdown: Ketchup vs. mustard The best cookbooks for carnivores Omaha Steaks Good Times Grill Pack Omaha Steaks From one of the original meat deliverers, this Omaha Steaks sausage feast includes a variety of great-tasting sausages: eight jumbo frankfurters (hot dogs for the win!), eight jumbo bratwurst, eight Italian sausages and eight kielbasa sausages. Now, how much beer do I need to go with that? $45 at Omaha Steaks Vermont uncured summer sausage (three-pack) Vermont Sausage Co. Sure, summer is still months away, but these fresh summer sausages, made with a blend of beef and pork, are the perfect offering any time of year (or any meal. Seriously, try these with your breakfast!) $21 at Boxed Vegan sausage (four-pack) Mercato Vegetarians and vegans can now enjoy a proper sausage fix. Surely you've heard about the plant-based meat alternatives from food-tech startups like Impossible and Beyond Meat. These meatless brats with all-vegan seasonings and ingredients, courtesy of Beyond Meat, seek to imitate the flavor of a traditional German sausage. $11 at Mercato More buying guides The best wine clubs and subscriptions in 2020 for your taste The most fashionable lunch boxes of 2020 These kitchen gadgets help fight food waste and save money The best healthy meal kits in 2020 The best meal kit delivery services of 2020 The best gas grills you can buy today 21 Photos Comments Random Health and Wellness Notification on Notification off Deals Close Discuss: The best sausages to order online for 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.