https://www.cnet.com/news/at-t-and-t-mobile-wireless-megamerger-roundup/
AT&T and T-Mobile: Wireless megamerger (roundup) - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In AT&T and T-Mobile: Wireless megamerger (roundup) The No. 2 and No. 4 wireless carriers announce a $39 billion merger deal that would create a company with nearly 130 million subscribers, easily leapfrogging Verizon Wireless for the No. 1 spot. CNET News staff December 1, 2011 12:56 PM PST The No. 2 and No. 4 wireless carriers announce a $39 billion merger deal that would create a company with nearly 130 million subscribers, easily leapfrogging Verizon Wireless for the No. 1 spot. AT&T to FCC: You're totally 'one-sided' on T-Mobile deal Carrier accuses federal regulators of "cherry-picking" some facts, and ignoring others, to push its view that the merger with T-Mobile USA would be bad for the nation. (Posted in Wireless by Roger Cheng) December 1, 2011 10:22 AM PDT AT&T and Deutsche Telekom discuss a plan B? The Wall Street Journal reports that AT&T is talking to Deutsche Telekom about forming a joint venture in case AT&T's $39 billion bid to buy T-Mobile is rejected by regulators. So what's T-Mobile's backup plan? (Posted in Signal Strength by Marguerite Reardon) November 30, 2011 2:42 PM PST FCC report slams AT&T's takeover of T-Mobile Regulators say the proposed $39 billion wireless megamerger would lead to huge job losses and less competition. AT&T calls the decision to release the report "troubling." (Posted in Mobile by Steven Musil) November 29, 2011 11:10 PM PST AT&T hopes Leap deal will enable T-Mobile buy: report The carrier hopes to ease regulatory objections to its T-Mobile acquisition by selling assets to a second-tier wireless operator, the New York Times says. (Posted in Deep Tech by Stephen Shankland) November 29, 2011 1:12 AM PST AT&T and T-Mobile merger madness recap (FAQ) A lot has happened regarding AT&T's $39 billion acquisition of T-Mobile. This CNET FAQ will get you up to speed on what happened--and what it all means. (Posted in Signal Strength by Marguerite Reardon) November 28, 2011 3:29 PM PST AT&T readies a Hail Mary pass on T-Mobile--report AT&T could offer to divest as much of 40% of T-Mobile in order to win approval for its beleaguered acquisition, Bloomberg reports. (Posted in Mobile by David Hamilton) November 25, 2011 2:59 PM PST AT&T to take $4 billion charge to cover possible T-Mobile breakup fee AT&T says it will take fourth-quarter charge to cover possible breakup fee, and withdraws application to FCC. But the pending deal's not dead just yet. (Posted in Signal Strength by Edward Moyer) November 24, 2011 9:16 AM PST How long will AT&T fight for T-Mobile? AT&T's $39 billion deal to buy T-Mobile looks like it's dead. So how long will AT&T hang on? (Posted in Signal Strength by Marguerite Reardon) November 22, 2011 5:25 PM PST States join feds in opposing AT&T's T-Mobile buy Seven state attorneys general have joined the U.S. Department of Justice in its opposition to AT&T's efforts to acquire T-Mobile USA. (Posted in Wireless by Roger Cheng) September 16, 2011 1:00 PM PDT States join feds in opposing AT&T's T-Mobile buy Seven state attorneys general have joined the U.S. Department of Justice in its opposition to AT&T's efforts to acquire T-Mobile USA. (Posted in Wireless by Roger Cheng) September 16, 2011 1:00 PM PDT Sprint files suit to block AT&T's T-Mobile merger Opposition is building against the acquisition deal that Sprint and other critics say would create a wireless "duopoly" and spell bad news for consumers. (Posted in Wireless by Eric Mack) September 6, 2011 10:12 AM PDT Deutsche Telekom: We are entitled to a breakup fee The German telecommunications giant says it would get a breakup fee if AT&T's planned acquisition of T-Mobile USA falls through. T-Mobile may miss out on AT&T break-up fee, report says (Posted in Wireless by Roger Cheng) September 6, 2011 7:49 AM PDT AT&T fighting to save T-Mobile deal AT&T is expected to offer some proposals to move forward with its acquisition of T-Mobile in the wake of the DOJ's attempt to block the deal. (Posted in Wireless by Lance Whitney) September 2, 2011 5:59 AM PDT T-Mobile sans AT&T faces big 4G gap The Department of Justice wants T-Mobile USA to remain a "maverick" competitor, but can the No. 4 player stand on its own two feet without a 4G strategy? (Posted in Signal Strength by Marguerite Reardon) September 1, 2011 4:00 AM PDT Justice Dept. to block AT&T's T-Mobile deal In its lawsuit, the federal government says the deal would hurt competition and reduce innovation in the wireless industry. • Why the DOJ means business on AT&T and T-Mobile • PDF: DOJ's lawsuit Text of DOJ statement • ZDNet: Fallout from DOJ suit (Posted in Wireless by Don Reisinger) August 31, 2011 7:53 AM PDT AT&T promises 5,000 new jobs after T-Mobile merger The company says workers will be needed to fill call center jobs if the deal is approved. And then the Justice Department steps in to try to block the deal. (Posted in Wireless by Don Reisinger) August 31, 2011 7:33 AM PDT AT&T gets merger support from a key lawmaker Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee is getting behind AT&T for its deal to acquire T-Mobile USA. (Posted in Signal Strength by Marguerite Reardon) August 3, 2011 4:23 PM PDT States weigh in on AT&T-T-Mobile merger A number of state governments have voiced an opinion on the proposed merger between T-Mobile and AT&T. Most are in favor, but a few are expressing concern. AT&T/T-Mobile merger finds more support in the states (Posted in Dialed In by Kent German) August 2, 2011 5:44 PM PDT On Call: What we'd really lose in an AT&T-T-Mobile merger Though critics charge that a merger between AT&T and T-Mobile will lead to higher prices and reduce customer choice, there are bigger, and less tangible, issues at stake. (Posted in Dialed In by Kent German) July 28, 2011 2:18 PM PDT AT&T offers more data to FCC for T-Mobile deal AT&T has filed additional data with the FCC to support its claims that its proposed $39 billion takeover of T-Mobile will benefit consumers. (Posted in Signal Strength by Marguerite Reardon) July 26, 2011 8:09 AM PDT Senate antitrust leader opposes AT&T/T-Mobile merger Sen. Herb Kohl, the head of the Senate Judiciary Antitrust Subcommittee, wants regulators to block AT&T's $39 billion bid to buy T-Mobile USA. AT&T customers try to block merger with T-Mobile (Posted in Signal Strength by Marguerite Reardon) July 20, 2011 11:29 AM PDT States subpoena Sprint over AT&T-T-Mobile merger As it continues to fight against the proposed merger between AT&T and T-Mobile, attorneys general in nine states have subpoenaed the carrier in conjunction with antitrust reviews. (Posted in Dialed In by Kent German) July 12, 2011 12:43 PM PDT T-Mobile responds to opponents of AT&T merger T-Mobile responded Tuesday to filings and comments made by opponents of the $39 billion deal to merge with AT&T. (Posted in Signal Strength by Marguerite Reardon) June 21, 2011 3:39 PM PDT NY State commission cautions FCC on AT&T-T-Mobile merger In a letter to the FCC, the New York State Public Service Commission says that New York consumers will be significantly and disproportionally affected by the merger. Sprint counters AT&T's spectrum claims (Posted in Dialed In by Kent German) June 20, 2011 2:29 PM PDT Despite looming buyout, T-Mobile powers on T-Mobile may be prepping for an AT&T buyout, but the carrier remains just as active as ever in releasing new smartphones, tablets, and services until the FCC makes its call. (Posted in Dialed In by Jessica Dolcourt) June 16, 2011 11:27 AM PDT Civil rights groups line up behind AT&T-T-Mobile AT&T is getting support from all corners for its bid for T-Mobile, even from groups like GLAAD, the NAACP, and the Sierra Club. (Posted in Dialed In by Kent German) June 15, 2011 12:08 PM PDT Sprint the winner if AT&T absorbs T-Mobile? commentary Sprint has done a better job than any other provider of firmly anchoring itself as a low-cost option. It's also done a better job of improving customer service. (Posted in (Posted in Wireless by Roger Entner) June 6, 2011 5:39 AM PDT AT&T: Support growing for T-Mobile merger The carrier says that major groups including the AFL-CIO and NAACP, along with 15 state governors, are giving a thumbs-up to its proposed takeover of T-Mobile USA. (Posted in The Digital Home by Don Reisinger) June 3, 2011 8:16 AM PDT Sprint asks FCC to block AT&T, T-Mobile merger In an official filing before the Federal Communications Commission, Sprint claims that the proposed merger between AT&T and T-Mobile has "no public interest." (Posted in Dialed In by Kent German) May 31, 2011 2:08 PM PDT AT&T to Congress: T-Mobile buy good for consumers The phone giant's CEO defends the proposed acquisition to lawmakers, who question the company about market concentration and potential job losses. (Posted in Wireless by Jay Greene) May 26, 2011 9:54 AM PDT For AT&T merger, Sprint dusts off its Christmas list Sprint recently asked Congress to block the AT&T-T-Mobile merger because of its impact on competition for cellular backhaul. But the merger has nothing to do with backhaul--only on Sprint's bottom line. (Posted in Wireless by Larry Downes) May 25, 2011 4:00 AM PDT Report: AT&T pays $6B if T-Mobile deal fails If the acquisition collapses, the carrier would be forced to fork over cash, services, and assets worth $6 billion to T-Mobile USA parent Deutsche Telekom, according to Reuters. (Posted in The Digital Home by Don Reisinger) May 13, 2011 7:03 AM PDT AT&T defends T-Mobile deal to U.S. Senate AT&T didn't find many allies at U.S. Senate hearing, where politicians claimed the proposed $39 billion deal would lead to less competition and create a mobile "duopoly." (Posted in Wireless by Declan McCullagh) May 11, 2011 10:34 AM PDT Is AT&T a wireless spectrum hog? Without T-Mobile's spectrum, AT&T says its customers will experience more dropped calls and slower data connections, but AT&T already has more spectrum than any other carrier. How much is enough? (Posted in Signal Strength by Marguerite Reardon) April 29, 2011 4:00 AM PDT AT&T files merger papers with FCC AT&T filed official paperwork with the Federal Communications Commission that announces its intention to acquire T-Mobile and its spectrum licenses. • Video: What consumers think about AT&T and T-Mobile merging (Posted in Dialed In by Kent German) April 21, 2011 4:24 PM PT FCC begins review of AT&T's T-Mobile bid The agency is ready to formally look into how the proposed $39 billion merger might affect competition, while the Justice Department considers antitrust issues. T-Mobile undercuts rivals on 'unlimited' plan (Posted in Signal Strength by Marguerite Reardon) April 14, 2011 10:53 AM PDT Ask Maggie: AT&T to cut T-Mobile Wi-Fi call feature? In this week's column Maggie answers another question about the AT&T and T-Mobile deal. Also: Why Samsung is slow in sending Android updates, and advice to a Boost Mobile customer. Ask Maggie: Will AT&T ax T-Mobile phones? (Posted in Signal Strength by Marguerite Reardon) April 8, 2011 4:00 AM PDT New York to scrutinize AT&T's T-Mobile deal The state's attorney general plans to analyze the proposed merger to ensure that it doesn't harm New York wireless consumers. (Posted in Signal Strength by Marguerite Reardon) March 29, 2011 11:12 a.m. PT Sprint to fight AT&T-T-Mobile merger Sprint, the No. 3 wireless provider in the U.S., says the merger would undo nearly three decades of work by the U.S. government to modernize the telecom sector and open markets to competition. (Posted in Dialed In by Bonnie Cha) March 28, 2011 1:30 p.m. PT MetroPCS to focus on Android, LTE AT&T and T-Mobile's merger would put the nation's fifth largest carrier in the No. 4 position. We asked MetroPCS what that might mean for it, and what its plans are. (Posted in CTIA 2011 by Jessica Dolcourt) March 25, 2011 8:39 a.m. PT Ask Maggie: Can I cancel T-Mobile post-AT&T merger? This week CNET mobile maven Maggie Reardon offers her perspective on whether disgruntled T-Mobile customers will be able to cancel their contracts if the feds OK the acquisition. (Posted in Signal Strength by Marguerite Reardon) March 25, 2011 4:00 a.m. PT What does the AT&T-T-Mobile merger mean to you? faq In a nutshell, consumers will have fewer choices when it comes to wireless service. But current AT&T and T-Mobile customers may experience improved service quality. (Posted in Signal Strength by Marguerite Reardon) March 23, 2011 4:00 a.m. PT Wireless CEOs spar onstage at CTIA Chief executives of AT&T, Verizon Wireless, and Sprint are forced to discuss the elephant in the room: AT&T's proposed acquisition of T-Mobile USA. Audi signs T-Mobile, gets AT&T (Posted in Signal Strength by Marguerite Reardon) March 22, 2011 8:17 a.m. PT What would AT&T, T-Mobile deal mean for Sprint? Sprint Nextel may find it difficult to compete on its own if the deal between AT&T and T-Mobile is eventually approved by regulators. Sprint: Google Voice deal 'extremely important' (Posted in Signal Strength by Marguerite Reardon) March 21, 2011 9:56 p.m. PT Now playing: Watch this: AT&T plans to buy T-Mobile 1:25 AT&T: Buying T-Mobile speeds LTE shift in U.S. Facing regulatory scrutiny, AT&T argues that buying T-Mobile USA will bring next-gen mobile networks to more Americans at a quicker clip and make the United States more competitive. Study: Verizon fastest among 4G networks (Posted in Deep Tech by Stephen Shankland) March 21, 2011 7:52 a.m. PDT T-Mobile acquisition may face regulatory hurdles No. 2 AT&T's $39 billion proposed acquisition of No. 4 T-Mobile USA may make sense from a technology perspective, but the companies are likely to face scrutiny from regulators. (Posted in Signal Strength by Marguerite Reardon) March 20, 2011 6:02 p.m. PT AT&T and T-Mobile: Good for whom? analysis AT&T announces it will acquire T-Mobile for $39 billion. Though the carrier is preaching nothing but upsides for T-Mobile customers, I'm not so sure. • Video: What consumers think about AT&T and T-Mobile merging (Posted in Dialed In by Kent German) March 20, 2011 8:09 p.m. PT AT&T and T-Mobile--listen before you judge analysis Consumer advocates have already condemned the AT&T and T-Mobile USA as "unthinkable." But Larry Downes argues jumping to conclusions doesn't help anyone, especially consumers. (Posted in Signal Strength by Larry Downes) March 20, 2011 6:02 p.m. PT T-Mobile: Business as usual for now In the wake of the AT&T acquisition news, T-Mobile assures its customers that nothing will change. At least for the next 12 months. (Posted in Dialed In by Bonnie Cha) March 20, 2011 2:54 p.m. PT AT&T-T-Mobile merger: By the numbers On the cusp of a historic mobile operator merger between AT&T and T-Mobile, a look at some key stats. (Posted in Dialed In by Jessica Dolcourt) March 20, 2011 6:16 p.m. PT Current AT&T and T-Mobile plans compared After the AT&T and T-Mobile merger news broke, one of the first concerns many T-Mobile customers had was with pricing plans. (Posted in Dialed In by Nicole Lee) March 20, 2011 9:51 p.m. PT Will AT&T kill T-Mobile's lovely anti-AT&T ads? The news that T-Mobile USA is being bought by AT&T might mean the end of the T-Mobile campaign that attacks, um, AT&T. (Posted in Technically Incorrect by Chris Matyszczyk) March 20, 2011 1:58 p.m. PT AT&T to acquire T-Mobile USA for $39 billion T-Mobile's 33 million subscribers will give AT&T the dominant position in the mobile market and leave the U.S. with only one GSM carrier. (Posted in Wireless by Steven Musil) March 20, 2011 12:03 p.m. PT Comments 4G LTE AT&T FCC MetroPCS Sprint T-Mobile Verizon Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: AT&T and T-Mobile: Wireless megamerger (roundup) Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.