https://www.cnet.com/news/zune-2-0-gets-official/
Zune 2.0 gets official - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Zune 2.0 gets official CNET Senior Editor Donald Bell discusses Microsoft's latest Zune MP3 player announcement. Donald Bell October 3, 2007 9:45 AM PDT Click here to see the Microsoft Zune 2.0 slide show. Microsoft has officially revealed its plans for new 4GB, 8GB, and 80GB Zune MP3 players (the rumormongers nailed this one). The new players are expected out in November, priced at $149, $199, and $249, respectively. The 80GB version is only available in black, but both the 4GB and 8GB versions will be available in black, red, pink, and green. While the news hasn't exactly knocked us off our feet, there are some interesting new features worth noting (skip to the end to find out what they didn't add). Wireless sync Zune users can now sync their player to a computer over a home Wi-Fi network. This is a feature Zune users have been asking for from the very start, so it's nice to see it finally implemented. Existing Zune users (all 1 million) will also be given the new wireless sync feature once the firmware upgrade hits in November. Zune Social Zune.net is getting an overhaul, and with it will come a new online music community allowing users to create customizable "Zune Cards" (yes, we're trying to keep a straight face). From the looks of it, the Zune Card is a little Web 2.0 widget that automatically keeps a running tally of your favorite music based on information fed to it from your computer's Zune software. The song titles listed on your Zune Card link back to the Zune Marketplace, allowing all your Zune buddies to preview and perhaps purchase the music you've recommended. If you're expecting Microsoft to cut you in on the revenue made off your recommendations, don't hold your breath. I'm trying not to rush to judgment before I see it, but my first impression is that Zune Social sounds like a watered-down Last.FM, sprinkled with Microsoft corporate cool-repellent. Media Center Tight integration with the video-recording capabilities of Microsoft's Windows Media Center platform is another one of those features (like wireless syncing) that we're happy to see, but really should have been included with Zunes to begin with. If you're using Windows Media Center, or derivatives such as Windows Vista Home or Windows Vista Ultimate, you can now sync PC-recorded TV content directly to your Zune. Like last year's Toshiba Gigabeat S , we suspect that the Zune's Windows Media Center compatibility will mean you can sync TivoToGo content as well, but we'll have to wait and see. What's missing? While the new Zunes seem like fun, they don't look like the iPod-pummeling horsemen of the apocalypse we were expecting. What about wireless music and movie downloads, Internet radio streaming, unrestricted Zune-to-Zune music sharing, or iPhone-esque Internet and e-mail support? It's as if Steve Jobs fired cannon at Microsoft filled with iPhones and iPod Touches , and Bill Gates retaliated with a fistful of the Zunes we should have seen last year. That said, the Zune is obviously set to compete against the iPod Nano and the iPod Classic , and in this context the latest Zunes have a lot going for them. Historically, the Zune trumps the iPod on audio fidelity, as well as screen size and picture quality. Still, if audio and video quality weren't enough to give the iPod a run for its money last year, what's to say this year will be any different? Need a closer look? Here's our second-generation Zune slide show. Comments Crave Gadgets Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Zune 2.0 gets official Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.