https://www.cnet.com/news/dell-reports-earnings-income-up-27-percent/
Dell reports earnings, income up 27 percent - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Dell reports earnings, income up 27 percent The world's No. 2 PC maker shows signs of improvement after a rough year. Erica Ogg November 29, 2007 4:48 PM PST Updated at 3:30 PST with additional comments from Dell. After more than a year of "preliminary" filings, Dell reported its official quarterly earnings Thursday, garnering $15.6 billion in revenue, and earnings of 34 cents per share. The company's net income rose 27 percent from $601 million a year ago to $766 million this quarter. Following a tough year for the Round Rock, Texas PC maker, which included the wrap-up of its internal investigation into its accounting practices, supply problems, and the refiling of more than three years' worth of SEC reports, the company reported revenue results nine percent higher than the same quarter a year ago. Though market research firm iSuppli reported earlier in the day that Dell continues to lose market share to rival Hewlett-Packard globally, CEO Michael Dell said in a statement that Thursday's financial results meant the company is "making solid progress." He added that Dell will be focusing more on consumer products with an emphasis on design, personalization and lower costs. The U.S. consumer PC business, where Dell still leads in units shipped, saw revenue losses of six percent from a year ago. The company's server and storage businesses each grew eight percent, however. Said CFO Donald Carty on a conference call with investors, "We want to do a better job...but we are pleased with the quarter." The idea of future improvement was a running theme throughout the call. Following the revelation this past summer that Dell accountants had altered quarterly earnings results to meet investor guidance and expectations, Dell no longer gives guidance for subsequent quarters, which seemed to frustrate investors as they struggled to determine how to gauge the level of Dell's future success. Carty said they would know in relation to the overall success of the various industries in which the company participates. "If we're not growing faster than the industry, we're not doing our job," he said. Carty also noted that the company is flush with cash, with about $15 billion currently on the books and has plans to invest in several key areas, as well institute stock buybacks when the board of directors gives its OK. Dell had ceased stock repurchasing during its internal investigation. Dell, the company's chairman and chief executive, also outlined what will be the five key areas of investment for the company going forward: consumer products, emerging markets, notebook PCs, small and medium businesses, and enterprise products. Carty noted, "Our current share in each of those (areas) leaves lots of room for expansion." Dell declined to be specific, however, about the company's most recent experiment in the retail business. "We're in the early stages of this," he said. "You can expect to see a number of additional (retail partners) in the biggest countries in the world. So far, it's gone quite well." He did not provide a specific time line. Comments Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: Dell reports earnings, income up 27 percent Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.