https://www.cnet.com/news/huawei-zte-fbi-chris-wray-nsa/
Don't use phones from Huawei or ZTE, FBI director says - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Don't use phones from Huawei or ZTE, FBI director says FBI Director Chris Wray and a team of security officials tell the Senate Intelligence Committee that Huawei and ZTE pose threats to the US. Daniel Van Boom February 14, 2018 8:35 PM PST Ian Knighton/CNET Huawei has had carrier deals with AT&T and Verizon fall through in recent months, with rumblings that the US government encouraged the carriers to pass on the Chinese electronics giant. This was confirmed on Tuesday. FBI Director Chris Wray told the Senate Intelligence Committee on Tuesday that the FBI was "deeply concerned" about the risks posed by Huawei and ZTE, Chinese companies that sell both phones and telecommunications equipment. "We're deeply concerned about the risks of allowing a company or entity that is beholden to foreign governments that don't share our values to gain positions of power inside our telecommunications networks," he said. That position of power would allow Huawei or ZTE "the capacity to exert pressure or control over our telecommunications infrastructure, it provides the capacity to maliciously modify or steals information and provides the capacity to conduct undetected espionage." He commended AT&T and Verizon for heeding the government's warnings regarding Huawei, which led to the Mate 10 Pro not getting carrier support in the US. This time last month, Huawei was expected to announce at CES that the Mate 10 Pro would be sold through AT&T. This would be big for Huawei -- a company that's selling well in China and Europe, but has yet to find success in the US -- as 90 percent of phone purchases in the US come through carriers. But it wasn't to be: AT&T pulled out of the deal before CES. Later in January, it was revealed that Verizon put the kibosh on a similar deal due to the concerns aired by Wray on Tuesday. "This is a challenge that's only going to increase, not lessen, overtime," NSA Director Mike Rogers added. Related stories Huawei trades Mate 10 Pros for reviews that shouldn't exist Huawei Mate 10 preorders open in the US, priced at $799 Verizon's plan to sell Huawei phone suffocated by political pressure When the panel of six, which also included officials from the CIA and Defense Intelligence Agency, was asked to raise their hand if they would recommend private citizens use a device from Huawei or ZTE, not one hand was raised. Huawei defended itself by saying it's trusted in over 100 countries around the world, and criticised the US government for calling it more risky than any other given company. "Huawei is trusted by governments and customers in 170 countries worldwide, connecting one-third of the world's population," said Huawei Vice President of External Affairs William Plummer. "Privacy and security are critically important to all of us these days and we must all be cautious to protect our personal and family and professional data from compromise." He added that authorities should be careful too. "In a world in which every information technology solution is the product of global supply chains, authorities should also be cautious not to brand one or another supplier as 'more vulnerable' than others - this is misleading at best, dangerous at worst." Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool. CNET Magazine: Check out a sampling of the stories you'll find in CNET's newsstand edition. Comments Tech Industry ZTE Huawei Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Don't use phones from Huawei or ZTE, FBI director says Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.