https://www.cnet.com/news/ces-2007-microsoft-and-the-wrong-trousers/
CES 2007: Microsoft and the wrong trousers - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CES 2007: Microsoft and the wrong trousers It's January, it's CES -- and that means a Gates keynote. Bill was up to his old tricks again -- cheesy videos of youngsters leading the digital lifestyle, plans for global domination and trousers that just look, well, odd... Ian Morris January 9, 2007 7:23 AM PST The Gates soft-shoe shuffle at CES kicks off the gadget show each year with the same forlorn regularity as a Windows blue screen of death. It's comforting to watch Bill climb up to the stage, but prepare yourselves, people: this can't go on for ever. Gates began his remarks by saying that next year's keynote may well be his last. This year's keynote didn't hold too many surprises. There was the usual self-satisfied purring about what a long way we've all come, baby, in what Gates is now calling "the digital decade". There was also some quite staggeringly unhip video showing what were supposed to be hip and cool consumers using Microsoft products to have connected experiences. These scenes had the realism, credibility and conviction of gonzo porn (where do they find these people?) and serve as a useful reminder that money can't buy cool, no matter how much it hunts for it. (Check out the keynote video if you don't believe us.) The main event was news of a new home server as well as some cutesy Media Center PCs in quirky form factors (round and white anyone?). There was also the intriguing news that Microsoft will allow its Xbox 360 games console to act as a link to its Internet Television service, or IPTV. As every switched-on Crave reader knows, this is just another move in the complicated game of Twister being played out as different tech industry giants try to reach around each other's technology and establish a dominant position in our digital living rooms. Software makers, hardware manufacturers and service providers all want to own our digital homes, and the Xbox 360 is Microsoft's stealth weapon in the race to control our domestic digital goods. Gates wants the Xbox 360 to act as a gateway to more than just games, and to make Windows-based computing the cornerstone of the digital living room of the future -- streaming IPTV through the 'box is another piece of the puzzle. Crave couldn't help noticing that over here in the UK BT Vision, the on-demand service quietly announced last year, is built using Microsoft IPTV technology. So will this mean that we'll be seeing BT's video-on-demand content on our 360s? A nice chap in the BT press office could do no more than make encouraging noises, saying that BT would be providing content for the service "across a number of platforms". That didn't stop us from taking time out of our busy day to muse about a truly connected future in which we can log on to Xbox Live and chat about Antiques Roadshow on our wireless headsets with teenagers in Milwaukee. Remember, you heard it here first. -IM Comments TVs Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: CES 2007: Microsoft and the wrong trousers Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.