https://www.cnet.com/news/how-to-setup-multiroom-music-with-google-cast/
How to setup multiroom music with Chromecast - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In How to setup multiroom music with Chromecast Whether you have a Google Home, a Chromecast Audio or a Chomecast built-in audio device, here's how to use it as part of a multiroom music system. Ty Pendlebury August 11, 2017 8:22 AM PDT Sarah Tew/CNET Now playing: Watch this: How to set up Google Home as part of a multiroom music... 1:41 Ever dreamed of having a future home? One where your music plays in multiple rooms simultaneously, and from multiple devices, party-style? Google's Chomecast technology, formerly known as Google Cast, can realize that dream for an affordable price. The $35 Chromecast Audio, the Google Home speaker, and numerous other Chromecast built-in devices such as the Sony STR-DN1080 receiver and the JBL Playlist speaker, can now work in concert together throughout your home. You can create groups of multiple devices and send music, news or whatever to any or all of them at the same time, using the Google Home app on your phone. If you're serious about multiroom music then Sonos and other systems, such as Samsung's multiroom system or Play-Fi, might be better investments. But they cost a lot more and require you to buy Sonos speakers exclusively or other expensive components. An inexpensive Chromecast Audio dongle works with virtually any powered speaker or audio system. Here's how to set it up. Here's everything the Google Home can do 18 Photos Getting started First you'll need to connect your device to the network. If you're using a third-party Chromecast product, such as the Sony receiver mentioned above, follow the usual connection method as directed by the device. This could mean using the device's smartphone app or navigating to the setup routine under the device's Settings. If you've bought a Google Home or Chromecast Audio, or a device like the JBL Playlist that's tightly integrated with Google's ecosystem, connecting it to the network is a little more straightforward. You'll use the Google Home app for iOS or Android. From the main page of the Google Home app (below left) look for the little "setup" icon in the top right-hand corner, next to the search icon. Pressing that will take you to the Devices tab (below right). The main page of the Google Home app (left). Touching the devices icon in the upper right, next to search, takes you to the Devices page (right). Screenshots by David Katzmaier All of the compatible devices that the app has detected will appear here, and it will inform you whether they need to be set up or not. If for some reason Google Home doesn't find them, you can press the Add Device button at the bottom of the screen. The setup process walks you through step by step; see "How to set up Google Home" for more info. How to create groups A group consists of two or more Chromecast components (such as a Chromecast Audio, Google Home and a Sony receiver) which will operate as if a single speaker. To create one, choose one of the devices on the Devices page and click the "..." button. Choose "Create group", and a setup page appears. Here you can name the group -- for example "House Party" if they're in three living areas -- and then choose from the available devices that you'd like to add. The new "House Party" group will now appear on your list as if it was a single device. Screenshot by David Katzmaier Use your group in Chromecast apps There are dozens of apps that support casting, but here we're going to concentrate on ones that are audio focused. First open up a Chromecast-compatible app, like Spotify or Pandora, and click the Cast button. On the list that appears you'll see all the available devices as well as any groups you've created, such as "House Party", for example. Choose a group, play a song using the app and the music will play to all the included speakers and devices simultaneously. The $150 JBL Playlist is one of our favorite Chromecast-compatible devices. Sarah Tew/CNET Is Chromecast a Sonos killer? While the technology shows great promise, it's not quite able to rival Sonos just yet. The biggest hurdle so far are the apps themselves. It's one source or app at once. As of writing there are still no Chromecast apps that can integrate multiple streaming services in the way that Sonos' app does. So while we wait for the "killer" Chromecast app, the ecosystem is nonetheless an excellent look into the future of low-cost multiroom music. If you're looking to dip your toes in the house party waters for a very modest outlay, Chromecast built-in is definitely the best place to start. Comments Wireless & Bluetooth Speakers Smart Home Notification on Notification off Google Close Discuss: How to setup multiroom music with Chromecast Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.