https://www.cnet.com/news/best-iphone-apps-of-2020/
Best iPhone apps of 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Best iPhone apps of 2020 The best iPhone apps have changed the way we communicate, watch TV and play games. Alison DeNisco Rayome January 30, 2020 4:00 AM PST Angela Lang/CNET Apps have dominated our lives for the last decade, and in 2020 they have only become more a part of how we move through the world each day -- how we communicate, learn, travel, watch TV and play. The introduction of the iPhone 11 and Apple's major moves into the world of subscription gaming and TV services in the last year only made the apps that give us access to them more important. The following iPhone apps were either introduced in the past year, got a major update, thanks to a new service (looking at you, Apple TV) or gained a cultural currency that we hadn't seen previously (I mean, The Washington Post has a TikTok channel with hundreds of thousands of followers now), and the CNET staff believed they deserved recognition. Without further ado, here are the best iPhone apps of the year. Read more: 25 apps that defined the decade Spectre Camera Spectre In December 2019, Apple awarded the AI photography app Spectre Camera its title of iPhone App of the Year. Spectre uses machine learning to take simulated long-exposure photos on your iPhone -- an effect that previously required a DSLR or mirrorless camera. The app also includes support for the ultrawide camera on the iPhone 11 and iPhone 11 Pro. You can download Spectre in the App Store on iOS 11 or later for $2.99 (£2.99, AU$4.49). Read also: iPhone app of the year Spectre Camera uses AI to take photos that usually require a DSLR TikTok James Martin/CNET TikTok is a social video app where you can watch people lip-syncing or dancing to songs, or create videos of yourself doing the same. While it was released in 2016, last year was when TikTok truly went mainstream: In November 2019, the app surpassed 1.5 billion downloads worldwide on the App Store and Google Play, with more than 600 million downloads in 2019 alone. TikTok was also the third most-downloaded nongaming app of last year, after WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger -- putting it ahead of the main Facebook app and Instagram, according to mobile intelligence firm Sensor Tower. It should be noted, however, that TikTok is under investigation from the US government for potential security risks due to its Chinese ownership. You can download TikTok for free in the App Store. It's also available for Android. Read more: TikTok: What it is and how to use it to possibly achieve internet fame Apple Arcade games Óscar Gutiérrez/CNET Apple introduced its gaming subscription service Apple Arcade in September 2019, at $5 a month. Its catalog of more than 100 games -- available as downloadable apps for most iOS devices from the service in the App Store -- range from updates of nostalgic favorites like Pac-Man Party Royale and Frogger in Toy Town to puzzle games, mystery games and kid-friendly games. Apple named the musical motorcycle racing game Sayonara Wild Hearts as the Apple Arcade Game of the Year for 2019. You can subscribe to Apple Arcade for $4.99 (£4.99, AU$7.99) a month in the App Store, and download games from there. Read more: Apple Arcade updated: The full list of games Disney Plus Angela Lang/CNET Disney's $7-a-month streaming service Disney Plus launched in November 2019 to lots of fanfare -- and got 10 million subscribers in just one day. The platform includes some 500 movies and 7,500 episodes of TV, including Disney classics, as well as Star Wars, Marvel, Pixar and the Simpsons (not to mention new original show The Mandalorian, which introduced us to America's sweetheart, Baby Yoda). Disney has already made some changes to improve the streaming experience, including a resume button. You can subscribe to Disney Plus for $6.99 (AU$8.99) a month -- or get a year for free if you have Verizon -- and download the app on iOS and Android. (It's not yet available in the UK.) Read more: Disney Plus: Everything to know about Disney's new streaming service Apple TV Angela Lang/CNET The Apple TV app has been a hub for movies and TV shows for a couple years, but got a big revamp last year and became the home for Apple TV Plus, the company's $5-a-month TV streaming service, in November. The streaming platform is home to the star-studded drama The Morning Show and a number of other original shows, all accessible through the Apple TV app, which offers a clean, easy-to-navigate interface. You can subscribe to Apple TV Plus for $4.99 (£4.99, AU$7.99) a month online or in Apple's TV app in the App Store. Read more: Apple TV Plus: How to sign up and everything else to know Harry Potter: Wizards Unite WB Games/Niantic In 2019, Harry Potter: Wizards Unite was the hottest augmented reality, app-based game, from the creators of Pokemon Go. The game pits players against dark wizards and magical beasts to save characters from the Harry Potter books. You play by walking around the real world, following the game's map through the app on your phone. Though it had some security flaws, Wizards Unite showed us that Pokemon Go wasn't just a fluke, and AR games are here to stay. It also brought in $1.1 million on its launch weekend, according to Sensor Tower. You can download Harry Potter: Wizards Unite for free in the App Store, though it does include in-app purchases. Read more: How to play Harry Potter: Wizards Unite Craigslist Craigslist Online classified ads site Craigslist has been around since 1995, but crazily enough, it didn't get an iOS app until December of 2019. The app has a simple, nonfussy interface that's reminiscent of the website version, where you can search for everything from jobs to furniture to cars to purchase. The app currently has 4 out of 5 stars and more than 150 ratings in the App Store. You can download Craigslist free in the App Store. Read more: Nerdy Craigslist founder wants to change the world -- starting with your news Now playing: Watch this: Disney Plus streaming app is fun and full of rich content 2:16 Originally published last year. Updated periodically with new recommendations. Comments CNET Apps Today Mobile Software Mobile Apps TikTok Disney Notification on Notification off Apple Close Discuss: Best iPhone apps of 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.