https://www.cnet.com/news/best-tvs-for-2020/
The best TV in 2020 - CNET Esto también se puede leer en español. Leer en español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. The best TV in 2020 Looking for a new TV? Start here. David Katzmaier March 27, 2020 11:33 AM PDT Leer en español Best high-end TV for the money LG OLEDB9P series Jump to details $1,897 at Abt Electronics Best TV for the money, period TCL 6-Series Jump to details $750 at Walmart The picture quality king, by a nose LG OLEDC9P series Jump to details $2,197 at Abt Electronics Best alternative to OLED Vizio P-Series Quantum X Jump to details $1,198 at Walmart Best budget TV TCL 4-Series Jump to details $229 at Walmart Best picture quality in a non-OLED TCL 8-Series Jump to details $1,600 at Best Buy Best value in a premium-brand TV Samsung Q70R series Jump to details $1,198 at Walmart Second-best TV for the money Vizio M8-Series Quantum Jump to details $748 at Walmart Best smaller budget smart TV TCL 3-Series Jump to details $128 at Walmart Show more (4 items) Compared with buying a phone or PC, chances you probably don't need to replace your television too often. But when you finally do, it can seem like a whole new world of confusion. The latest jargon -- HDR, HDMI 2.1, 4K, 8K, OLED, QLED, 120Hz, Ultra HD, smart LED and so on -- is overwhelming, particularly for someone who hasn't shopped for a new TV in five or 10 years. I've been reviewing TVs since the days of plasma and rear projection, and I try to keep it as simple as possible. I concentrate on one concept: picture quality for the money. The list below represents the best TVs I've reviewed in CNET's test lab, where I compare them side by side to see which ones are most worth buying. Here are my latest recommendations, with the following notes to keep in mind. Unless noted otherwise, all of the prices you'll see are for 65-inch models. Looking for a specific screen size? Check out: 32-inch TVs, 43-inch TVs, 55-inch TVs, 65-inch TVs and 75-inch TVs. Don't see what you're looking for below? Here are all of the TVs I've reviewed, with more coming soon. Read more: Best TV antennas for cord cutters, starting at just $10 Best high-end TV for the money LG OLEDB9P series Sarah Tew/CNET OLED TVs are the picture quality kings, but they're not cheap. The TVs' OLED displays use organic light-emitting diode technology to deliver a contrast ratio, viewing angles, and a wide color gamut that no LCD TV (or QLED TV) can match. All of LG's 2019 OLED models include the latest version of the HDMI standard: 2.1. That means their HDMI ports can handle 4K at 120fps, as well as two gamer-friendly extras: variable refresh rate and automatic low latency mode (aka auto game mode). As the least expensive OLED TV, the B9 is our favorite overall for high-end shoppers. It fell just a bit short of the C9 in image quality in our tests, but the differences are minuscule -- and since it's less expensive than the C9, it's a better value. Sizes: 55-, 65-, 77-inch. Read our LG OLEDB9P series review. $1,897 at Abt Electronics $1,897 at Walmart $1,897 at Crutchfield Read more: Best blu-ray players of 2020 Best TV for the money, period TCL 6-Series Sarah Tew/CNET No TV I've ever tested offers this much picture quality for this little cash. The latest version of the TCL 6-Series has even better image quality than its predecessor, thanks to improved color, and its well-implemented full-array local dimming helps it run circles around just about any other TV at this price. As if that's not enough, the Roku TV operating system is our hands-down favorite. Sizes: 55-, 65-inch. Read our TCL 6-Series (2019 Roku TV) review. $750 at Walmart $750 at Best Buy Read more: Best 65-inch TVs for 2020 The picture quality king, by a nose LG OLEDC9P series Sarah Tew/CNET What's that you say? You just want the best, money no object? Here you go. In my side-by-side tests the C9 is the best TV I've ever reviewed, barely beating the B9 (above), although the B9 is a superior value -- almost as good and much less expensive. But if that "barely" matters to you, the C9 might be worth the extra cash. Sizes: 55-, 65-, 77-inch. Read our LG OLEDC9P series review. $2,197 at Abt Electronics $2,197 at Walmart $2,200 at Best Buy Read more: Best TVs for gaming with low input lag Best alternative to OLED Vizio P-Series Quantum X Sarah Tew/CNET Can't afford an OLED TV? Still willing to pay extra -- but not that much extra -- for good color and outstanding image quality? The Vizio PX is our pick for you, with superb light output no OLED can match, top-notch local dimming and all the high-contrast, high dynamic range joy that comes with it. Its closest competitor is the TCL below -- but this Vizio is the superior value. Sizes: 65-, 75-inch. Read our Vizio P-Series Quantum X review. $1,198 at Walmart $1,400 at B&H Photo-Video $2,100 at HSN Read more: Best 75-inch TVs for 2020 Best budget TV TCL 4-Series Sarah Tew/CNET Roku is our favorite platform for live TV streaming services like Netflix, Hulu and Amazon Prime Video, and it's even better baked into the TV. This TCL 4-Series can't beat any of the models above on image quality -- its 4K resolution and HDR compatibility don't do anything to help the picture -- but it's perfectly fine for most people, especially at this price. Sizes: 43-, 50-, 55-, 65-, 75-inch. (The price shown below is for the 43-inch size.) Read our TCL S425 series (Roku TV) review. $229 at Walmart $230 at Best Buy $400 at HSN Read more: HDR formats like Dolby Vision, HDR10, Technicolor and HLG explained Best picture quality in a non-OLED TCL 8-Series Sarah Tew/CNET Speaking of top-of-the-line, this TCL features Mini-LED, a technology that isn't found on any other TV currently available. The result is superb contrast, brightness and high dynamic range that outdoes the Vizio PX by a nose, although it doesn't quite hit OLED levels. We still consider the PX a better OLED alternative, however, because its picture quality is almost as good and it costs a lot less, especially in the 75-inch size. Sizes: 65-, 75-inch. Read our TCL 8-Series (2019 Roku TV) review. $1,600 at Best Buy Read more: How Samsung QLED technology and LG's OLED compare in 2020 Best value in a premium-brand TV Samsung Q70R series Sarah Tew/CNET Samsung's QLED TV is basically a fancy, smart LCD TV -- don't confuse it with OLEDs. The Q70R has an excellent picture and plenty of Samsung design and features goodies for a price that's relatively affordable, albeit not exactly "budget." If you're not interested in a TCL or Vizio and don't want to splurge for an OLED, the Q70 is an excellent choice. Sizes: 49-, 55-, 65-, 75-, 82-inch. Read our Samsung Q70 series (2019) review. $1,198 at Walmart $1,198 at Abt Electronics $1,399 at B&H Photo-Video Read more: Best Sonos speakers starting at $100 Second-best TV for the money Vizio M8-Series Quantum Sarah Tew/CNET Aside from the TCL 6-Series above, no TV offers this much picture for this little cash. In my comparisons, the TCL won slightly in a couple of important areas, in particular HDR brightness and contrast and black levels. I'd also recommend the TCL to streaming-centric viewers because of its superior Roku smart HDTV system. It's great for watching Amazon Prime, Netflix, Hulu, Apple TV, and more. And its color accuracy -- with quantum dot colors -- is superb. All of that said, the Vizio is still an excellent choice and sometimes available for less than the TCL -- just make sure you're getting the M8, not the M7. Sizes: 55-, 65-inch. Read our Vizio M-Series Quantum M8 series (2019) review. $748 at Walmart $900 at B&H Photo-Video $670 at Best Buy Read more: Dolby Atmos: Why it's cool, how it works and how to get it Best smaller budget smart TV TCL 3-Series Sarah Tew/CNET For sizes smaller than 55 inches, and for people who value smarts over image quality, these non-4K Roku TVs make the most sense. The picture is "good enough" and the built-in smarts are superb -- just enough to watch the final season of "The Office" or "Friends" content. And the price is perfect for a kids' room or secondary room where you don't need a massive screen. Sizes: 28-, 32-, 40-, 43-, 49-inch. (The price shown below is for the 40-inch size.) Read our TCL S325 series (Roku TV) review. $128 at Walmart $130 at Best Buy Other stuff to know about buying a new TV I'm pretty sure you'd be happy with any one of the TVs above, but a new set can be a big investment, so maybe you're looking for a bit more information. Here's a quick and dirty list. Prices for 2019 TVs started hitting their lowest points around late November (for Black Friday) and will continue to go on sale through the spring. In spring 2020 new TV models will arrive, but since TVs are generally a mature technology, they won't be worth waiting for if you want a TV now. In my opinion, bigger is better. Big TVs are cheaper than ever, and your money is best spent on large screen sizes rather than a slight upgrade in image quality. If you don't like the built-in smart TV system, you can always add a media streamer. They're cheap and easy to use, and receive updates more frequently than most smart TVs. See our picks of the best media streamers. Most built-in speakers sound terrible, so it's worthwhile to pair your new set with a soundbar or other speaker system. Good ones start at around $100. See the best soundbars. Looking for even more info? Here's everything to know about buying a new TV in 2020. Now playing: Watch this: LG B9 OLED TV review: This is the high-end 2019 TV to... 3:45 Originally published last year. Updated periodically with new recommendations. Comments TVs 4K TVs LG Roku Samsung Vizio TCL Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: The best TV in 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.