https://www.cnet.com/news/hp-aims-for-networking-cloud-with-3com-buy/
HP aims for networking cloud with 3Com buy - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In HP aims for networking cloud with 3Com buy Hewlett-Packard says it plans to acquire the maker of network switching and routing products in a deal valued at $2.7 billion. Erica Ogg November 11, 2009 3:46 PM PST Hewlett-Packard said Wednesday it plans to acquire 3Com, maker of network switching and routing products. The deal is valued at $2.7 billion, or $7.90 per share. HP says the purchase is intended to boost its networking business, particularly in China, where most of 3Com's business is focused. "By combining HP ProCurve offerings with 3Com's extensive set of solutions, we will enable customers to build a next-generation network infrastructure that supports customer needs from the edge of the network to the heart of the data center," Dave Donatelli, executive vice president and general manager of HP's Enterprise Servers and Networking business said in a statement. 3Com President and COO Ron Sege said he hoped that combining with HP's scale and large sales organization would allow him to get his products to more of the market quicker. "I want to be able to grow faster...now we're going to have it," he said. In addition to focusing on different geographic regions--half of 3Com's revenues last year came from its China operations--the two companies have little overlap in terms of products, which should make the integration of the two businesses simpler, Marius Haas, HP ProCurve Networking senior vice president and general manager, said Wednesday during a Webcast. HP CEO Mark Hurd discusses his ambition to have a full 'stack' of IT technology at a Gartner conference in October. Stephen Shankland/CNET The 3Com deal is the most recent in a string of enterprise-related acquisitions HP has made in the past year, includingmost recently file serving software maker Ibrix. HP wants to be a leader in providing customers with an integrated stack of computing technology ranging from servers and storage at the foundation all the way up to services, Chairman and CEO Mark Hurd said at a Gartner conference in October. But to be competitive these days, a company has to fully commit to each element of the stack. "You can't be in any one of them as a hobby," he said. "Compared to any competitor, you have to bring a combination of low cost and total cost of ownership, supported by innovation." The 3Com buy should position HP in position to compete better with Cisco, the largest presence in the networking and routing market. In response to 3Com's acquisition by HP, Cisco released this statement: "While Cisco has a healthy respect for all of our competitors, acquisitions in our industry only validate the fact that networking is becoming the platform for all forms of communications and IT. As the leader in the networking market, Cisco is very confident in our business strategy, commitment to product innovation and ability to provide strategic business value to our customers in a highly competitive marketplace." The 3Com deal is expected to close in the first half of 2010. HP stock barely registered the news, inching up 0.08 percent to $50 in after-hours trading Wednesday. 3Com's stock rose 5.18 percent to $5.69. CNET News' Stephen Shankland contributed to this report. This post was last updated at 3:40 p.m. PT with comments from 3Com and HP. Comments Tech Industry Notification on Notification off Culture Close Discuss: HP aims for networking cloud with 3Com buy Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.