https://www.cnet.com/news/barcelona-has-big-mobile-dreams/
Barcelona has big mobile dreams - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Barcelona has big mobile dreams As the home for Mobile World Congress until 2018, the Spanish city is aiming to be the planet's premier showcase for mobile technology. Kent German March 6, 2012 10:31 AM PST Barcelona has big mobile dreams. Kent German/CNET With a lovely Mediterranean location, an Olympic history, and a wealth of Modernisme architecture, Barcelona, Spain, is one of the planet's top tourist destinations. And if city officials have their way, the Catalan capital will be known as the "Mobile World Capital," as well. Since the annual Mobile World Congress trade show moved to Barcelona from Cannes, France, in 2006, the city has invested heavily to keep the event, which attracted an estimated 67,000 attendees (and their expense accounts) over the course of the 2012 show last week. And last July, Barcelona got its wish when it beat out Paris, Milan, and Munich for the right to host the show until 2018. The Fira's Montjuic and the Venetian Towers Kent German/CNET Adam Sedo, the press chief at Fira Barcelona, the city's exhibition venue that houses Mobile World Congress, attributes the city's win to its experience with hosting large events, a commitment to driving investment in Catalonia, and a desire for Barcelona to be the center of all things mobile. "This is part of an effort to attract people to all of the Barcelona area," he told CNET. "We want to be a living city lab for testing mobile technologies and how they shape our lives." To get there, the GSMA, a global industry association that organizes the event, also designated Barcelona as the first Mobile World Capital. Though that sounds like something born out of a marketing focus group (which it probably was), Sedo says that it means that Barcelona's plans go far beyond the four days when the largest wireless trade show comes to town. The new towers at the Fira Gran Via Fira de Barcelona Not surprisingly, attracting business to the area (the "Mobile World Hub") will be a prime effort, but at the public level, the city will open a year-round venue to showcase wireless technologies. Located in Barcelona's center on Placa de Catalunya, the Mobile World Centre will be something of a museum of mobile for tourists and residents. Each summer, the city also will host the Mobile World Festival, a weeklong series of sports, entertainment, and cultural events that highlight mobile technologies while reflecting Barcelona's strong regional identity. Specific events will include Formula 1 racing, the Sitges Film Festival, FC Barcelona football club matches, and art exhibitions at the Picasso and Joan Miro museums. Related stories Microsoft warns it might miss revenue guidance because of coronavirus Spending time with Huawei's new Mate XS LG unveils new K series phones 9 great reads from CNET this week Mobile World Congress canceled, Essential Products shutting down Come each February, however, Mobile World Congress and the international spotlight it brings will be the focus. And starting next year, the show will move to a new venue, the Fira Gran Via . Finished last September, the new complex has 240,000 square meters of exhibition space across eight buildings. That's more than three times the available space at the show's previous venue, the Fira Montjuic. Designed by Japanese architect Toyo Ito, the new buildings make bold and modern statements while lacking the historic charm and hillside terraces of the original location. Still, Sedo says that the twin towers in the new complex are Ito's interpretation of the Venetian Towers that stand at the entrance to Fira Montjuic. Similarly, though the Fira Gran Via's location outside the city center may appear to be less inconvenient, Sedo says it will be easily accessible via Barcelona's commuter train network or a 10-minute drive from Placa d'Espanya and the Montjuic complex. What's more, it will best the other location by offering a direct connection to the airport. Of course, we'll have to wait until next year to see just how these promises hold up. The 2013 Mobile World Congress will take place February 25 through 28, and CNET will be there to bring you the story. MWC 2012 See All • reading Barcelona has big mobile dreams • Mar 5 Mobile World Congress awes and entertains • Mar 4 NFC: More than just mobile payments • Mar 4 Lunching at the NFC Cafe (photos) Comments Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Barcelona has big mobile dreams Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.