https://www.cnet.com/news/best-yoga-mat-for-2020/
Best yoga mat for 2020 - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In CNET editors pick the products and services we write about. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Best yoga mat for 2020 Travel, nonslip, long lasting: The best yoga mat can make all the difference. Amanda Capritto March 26, 2020 4:22 PM PDT Best yoga mat for travel SKL Travel Yoga Mat Jump to details $27 at Amazon Best yoga mat for people who slip a lot Aurorae Synergy 2-in-1 Jump to details $60 at Amazon Best yoga mat for achy joints REEHUT High Density Yoga Mat Jump to details $28 at Amazon Best yoga mat for tall people Yoga Direct Extra Long Yoga Mat Jump to details $21 at Yoga Direct Best yoga mat for outside workouts Manduka PRO Yoga Mat Jump to details $120 at Amazon Best yoga mat for eco-aware yogis Jade Harmony Yoga Mat Jump to details $80 at Amazon Best yoga mat for budget shoppers BalanceFrom GoYoga mat Jump to details $13 at Amazon Bonus: Best overall Gaiam Sol Dry-Grip Yoga Mat Jump to details $50 at Amazon Show more (3 items) Whether you're a total newcomer to yoga or a long-time enthusiast, having the right yoga mat can make or break your practice. No matter if you prefer hot yoga, Bikram yoga, Hatha yoga, Iyengar yoga or other types of yoga, you'll want something durable with a good grip without being a sticky yoga mat. After all, no one wants to slip and slide in sweat, bruise their knees 15 minutes into the class, or dangle their feet off the edge during Savasana. The sheer amount of options for yoga mats can be overwhelming -- there are more than 30,000 results for "yoga mat" on Amazon! -- but this curated roundup can guide your next yoga mat purchase. We'll update it as we review more products. Read more: Best at-home fitness equipment in 2020 Manduka yoga mats Angela Lang/CNET What to consider when buying a yoga mat Depending on your needs, you could just scoop up a mat at TJ Maxx for $10, or you might need to spend a little more on something with more features, such as a non-slip yoga mat with an extra grippy surface. Consider what types of activities you'll be using your new yoga mat for and where you'll take your mat. Also take into account your height and any other bodily considerations (such as pain in your knees or back). Here are some helpful questions to ask yourself when choosing a good yoga mat: Will you be using it indoors, outdoors, or both? Pretty much any mat will do for indoor yoga, but if you plan on working out outside, you'll want something sturdier and more durable. Will you use it for hot yoga? If so, look for a mat with an extra grippy or non-slip surface. Do you need to take it on an airplane or other small space? Look for thinner mats that roll up or fold into a compact size so you can easily pack them. Do you need extra cushion or length? Standard mats run between an eighth of an inch and a quarter of an inch. You may need something thicker, like a half-inch mat if you need cushion for your knees, hands or back. Lengthwise, the standard is 68 inches, so taller people would benefit from a longer mat. What's your budget? Cheaper mats are best for beginners who aren't sure if they'll stick to a yoga practice and people who don't practice regularly. If you practice several days a week, a high quality mat will save you more money in the long run, since you won't have to replace your mat so often. Best yoga mat for travel SKL Travel Yoga Mat Amazon This 1/16-inch-thick mat folds into a 6.7-inch by 9.1-inch compact square and comes with a carry strap case, making it super easy to slide into a backpack, carry-on bag, tote or even a briefcase. It only weighs 2.5 pounds, making it a great travel alternative to some heavier roll-up mats. What buyers say: "Great material, really lightweight. Great for hiking or backpacking!" one buyer wrote. Another said, "Super compact and portable. I try to practice yoga every day so I got this mat for use when I travel. It's very soft and thin, and it folds up to fit in a compact little travel bag!" $27 at Amazon Best yoga mat for people who slip a lot Aurorae Synergy 2-in-1 Amazon Unlike other mats made of rubber or vinyl, this Aurorae mat has a microfiber surface that serves as a mat and towel in one product. It's a great option for people who sweat and slip a lot and usually lay a mat towel over their mat. Oh, and it's machine washable too. What buyers say: "I feel it's important that potential buyers know what a quality product this is -- I've been so happy with it." This reviewer continues, "I have used this mat two to three times per week every week since August, 2013. I've washed it in my washing machine (delicate cycle) and hung it to dry every time I've used it... It has held up perfectly over the years, and still looks almost brand new." $60 at Amazon Best yoga mat for achy joints REEHUT High Density Yoga Mat Amazon At a half-inch thick -- compared to the quarter-inch or even eighth-inch thickness of most mats -- the REEHUT High Density mat offers extra cushion and a grippy texture, making it comfortable but not unstable. It works great as a pilates mat, too. What buyers say: "Yay for gushy soft mat! My knees used to get black and blue from yoga. I actually walked across this mat on my knees to test it, too." Another buyer wrote that this mat is perfect for use on hard floors, and another gushes at how easy it is on the hands, knees and back. $28 at Amazon Best yoga mat for tall people Yoga Direct Extra Long Yoga Mat Amazon The standard length for yoga mats is about 68 inches, which means anyone over 5-foot-8-inches can't stretch out fully on a standard mat. Taller people may also have trouble with wide-stance poses like warrior II and downward dog, so extra-large size mats (which run between 72 and 85 inches) can help. What buyers say: "I'm very happy with this yoga mat. I'm 5 foot 8 inches and rarely with extra length of this mat do I have to think about staying positioned on mat while practicing yoga like on shorter yoga mats," one reviewer wrote. "I can close my eyes during yoga and concentrate on yoga instead of constantly checking to see if I'm remaining within bounds of my mat." $21 at Yoga Direct Best yoga mat for outside workouts Manduka PRO Yoga Mat Amazon This mat is heavier than most (7.5 pounds versus the average 4 to 5 pounds), but that extra weight helps with durability and stability for practicing yoga outside and on uneven terrain. Note that Manduka mats must be broken in or they'll remain slippery. Many people expedite the breaking-in process with a salt scrub. While that's arguably inconvenient, most buyers say that the breaking-in process is well worth the mat's quality and longevity. What buyers say: "The last mat I'll ever need… It's comfortable but it's not at all soft or squishy, it's a very firm stable support." $120 at Amazon Best yoga mat for eco-aware yogis Jade Harmony Yoga Mat Amazon Jade manufactures these mats with natural rubber tapped from rubber trees, which is an extremely renewable resource. They make the mats in the US and uphold compliance with all US environmental, labor and consumer protection laws. On top of that, for every mat sold, Jade plants a tree. What buyers say: "Jade Yoga is my new go-to. This is a really great mat, well worth the hefty price tag. It is also very thin but surprisingly cushy." $80 at Amazon Best yoga mat for budget shoppers BalanceFrom GoYoga mat BalanceForm Inexpensive and simple, this mat is great for beginners and anyone who's wary to front the cost of some more luxurious mats. What buyers say: "Affordable, easy, perfect thickness." One reviewer who was new to yoga praised the mat for being an easy choice for beginners, saying: "I was always interested in starting but wasn't sure what yoga mat to go with or even if I would stick with yoga, so was cost conscious. My first impression was that I was pleasantly surprised with the quality and thickness of this mat." $13 at Amazon Bonus: Best overall Gaiam Sol Dry-Grip Yoga Mat Amazon What buyers say: "Best. Mat. Ever… The surface is very absorbent. The grip is amazing -- way better than traditional mats - I am so secure in warrior 2. I am able to go through half my hot power yoga class without a yoga towel." That same buyer came back two years later to update her review: "I have had this yoga mat for two years now!!! I went through TWO yoga teacher trainings using this every day for hours, and often allowing other students to use it. I practice on it every single day. I do restorative yoga, drip-heavy heated power yoga and Bikram, as well as occasionally an outdoor class. It remains immaculate, as though I bought it yesterday!" Other buyers praise the sturdiness, grippiness and all-purpose abilities of this Gaiam mat, while others yet nod to its durability: No flaking or peeling after one year. $50 at Amazon More fitness guides Best fitness trackers for 2020 The best workout shoes for every type of exercise Best filtered water bottles in 2020 to remove bacteria The most innovative fitness tech at CES 2020 The best YouTube channels for getting in shape for free 8 ways to measure your fitness that aren't heart rate How to start running for fitness Water vs. Gatorade: which is better to drink when you exercise? Best wearable tech for 2020 The best treadmills of 2020: NordicTrack, Nautilus, Peloton and more 6 workouts for people who hate working out 12 meditation apps for better sleep and less stress - CNET The best water bottles in 2020 Best workout headphones in 2020 Gym closed? Here are some of the best home workout options The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives. Comments Fitness Amazon Notification on Notification off Tv & audio Close Discuss: Best yoga mat for 2020 Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.