https://www.cnet.com/news/sleep-tracking-study-shows-health-improvements-and-more/
Not tracking sleep? It's official: You're missing out - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Not tracking sleep? It's official: You're missing out CNET surveyed more than 1,000 readers about whether they use devices to monitor their sleep. A lot do, and they're feeling better for it. Lindsey Turrentine December 17, 2019 10:14 AM PST Tyler Lizenby In early September, Apple released Apple Watch Series 4 with no built-in sleep tracking. Next, Google released Android Wear OS also sans built-in sleep tracking. You'd think no one cares about the ability to track their own sleep hours and restfulness. Wrong. We asked 1,326 CNET readers in July of this year to answer questions about technology and their own sleep. We wanted to find out how many in our audience have used devices to track sleep and what they've gotten out of the experience. Many of you do track your sleep already despite the immature market for built-in or easy-to-find sleep trackers. Thirty percent of CNET's respondents already track their sleep, and most through the path of least resistance: 73 percent track using wearables. (Only 5 percent of those answering the survey track sleep using smart mattresses or technology built into beds.) Enlarge Image After survey respondents started tracking sleep, they reported sleeping much more than they did before tracking. CNET A full two-thirds of people who took our survey say that they're seeing positive effects after tracking Z's, including 32 percent who say they have higher energy levels and 32 percent who report feeling more positive in general. Twenty-nine percent tell us they now have lower stress levels, too. Of the 27 percent of trackers who told us they were getting "less sleep than ever" before tracking, 55 percent now report getting "more sleep than ever." Sleep tracking doesn't turn things around for everyone, though. Thirty-two percent say they're feeling no effects at all after tracking. (Of course, just because someone's tracking sleep doesn't mean they're fixing the problems they find with their sleep patterns.) Despite positive reports from trackers, there's plenty of opportunity for sleep tracking tech improvement. Almost one-fifth of the non-trackers we surveyed (19 percent) are former trackers -- they've quit since starting -- and 70 percent have never started at all. Thirty percent of those who haven't tracked say they're interested but have yet to take the plunge. Of the respondents, 32 percent say they have higher energy levels and 32 percent report feeling more positive in general. Now playing: Watch this: 4 features every smart bed needs 1:41 We asked some questions about what people need out of their sleep tracking and what could help them use what's available. Cost is an issue: 53 percent agree that they would be more likely to use sleep tracking tech if health insurance helped cover the cost. (Some insurers are already making the controversial move to supply health trackers -- or in the case of a major life insurer, even require customers to submit some health and fitness data to qualify for coverage.) Some sleep trackers simply need to make tracking easier. The ones that do include Fitbit and some competing devices, which build in tracking, and there are apps that promise to track sleep effectively using only your phone. Third-party apps work with Apple Watch and Android devices to turn them into sleep trackers. CNET has reviewed a number of smart mattresses that track sleep for multiple users and other devices that work on or near your bed to monitor tossing, turning, waking and even snoring. We're diving deep into the world of sleep tracking this week with a special package on what works and what doesn't in the world of high-tech sleep solutions. Four fancy smart beds for a better night's sleep 20 Photos These sleep gadgets are way weirder than counting sheep 16 Photos Proven ways to get better sleep: Our best tips to help you sleep better. What to know before buying a mattress: From big-box retailers to the web, here's what to look out for with your next mattress. Health and Wellness See All • reading Not tracking sleep? It's official: You're missing out • Mar 23 How to effectively clean the inside of your car if you're worried about COVID-19 • Mar 21 This is the gear you need to work from home • Mar 20 Google sibling Verily: Coronavirus website has led to over 130 tests so far • Mar 20 Google I/O is fully canceled, after earlier nixing the in-person event Comments Health and Wellness Wearable Tech Smart Home Sleep Tech Google Nokia Apple Notification on Notification off Mobile Close Discuss: Not tracking sleep? It's official: You're missing out Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.