https://www.cnet.com/news/ipados-apple-gives-the-ipad-its-own-operating-system-ios-wwdc-2019/
iPadOS gives Apple's tablets their own operating system - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In iPadOS gives Apple's tablets their own operating system Adios, iOS: A new strategy to make the tablet a true laptop replacement. Justin Jaffe June 3, 2019 11:40 AM PDT CNET Apple has introduced iPadOS -- a dedicated operating system for the iPad that brings a host of new capabilities to its tablet. Announced Monday at the company's Worldwide Developers Conference, iPadOS strengthens the iPad's productivity capabilities and nudges it closer to fulfilling its potential as a full-fledged laptop replacement. Apple will release the new operating system this fall as a free software update for the iPad Air 2 and iPad Mini (released earlier this year), all the iPad Pros, the 2017 iPad, the 2018 iPad and the iPad Mini 4. Now playing: Watch this: Apple introduces iPad OS 4:58 In the past, the company used its iOS mobile operating system to power both the iPhone and iPad, which sometimes required compromises. Now, the iPhone will move to iOS 13, also announced today, while the iPad will get its own operating system, allowing it to more fully inhabit its nature as a tablet. See also Apple iOS 13: New Siri voice, camera tools, Dark Mode for iPhone New Mac Pro makes its debut, starts at $5,999 Apple gives the iPad its own OS Returning to Apple's WWDC after 20 years, now with 5 OSes instead of 1 Get all the latest from WWDC To that end, iPadOS includes a new Home screen layout, enhanced multitasking features and new user interface gestures for cutting, copying, pasting and undoing actions. In addition to a number of new features that are also coming to iOS, including a system-wide dark mode and a new floating keyboard, iPadOS gives the company's tablets a few exclusives: expanded Apple Pencil functionality, improved file management and a new version of Safari that will make for a more desktoplike Internet browsing experience. Prior to the start of today's keynote, the company appeared to scoop itself, revealing the existence of iPadOS on its developer portal. Read more: Current-generation iPad 9.7 drops to $240 WWDC is where Apple details its newest software and services that will arrive on devices later in the year. The company may be best known for its hardware, but the seamless integration of its hardware with its software is what sets Apple apart from rivals. Apple's ability to control every aspect of its products -- something that began when Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak founded Apple in 1976 -- has been key in making it the most powerful company in tech. WWDC 2019: A quick visual recap of Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference keynote 46 Photos The event comes as software and services are taking on even greater importance for Apple. The company still sells millions of iPhones every quarter, but sales aren't soaring like they used to. People are holding onto their devices for longer, which makes it important to give them services that get them paying monthly. Apple has made augmented reality, mobile payments, streaming music and other areas itno key focuses over the past couple of years. Read more: 6 new uses for your old iPad The company last week said it has 20 million developers in its Apple developer Program, and it's made more than $120 billion selling digital goods and services in App Store apps. Apple also touted the creation of over 1.5 million jobs in the US and over 1.57 million across Europe. See all of today's Apple news. CNET's Shara Tibken contributed to this story. WWDC 2020 See All • reading iPadOS gives Apple's tablets their own operating system • Mar 17 Apple extends closure of US stores indefinitely on coronavirus worries • Mar 13 WWDC 2020 will be online only • Mar 13 Apple's WWDC to be online-only this year due to coronavirus • Nov 16 If you didn't customize your iPhone's Memoji, you're missing out. Here's how Comments WWDC 2020 Apple Event iPhone Update Tablets Operating Systems iOS 13 iOS 12 iPadOS Notification on Notification off Apple Close Discuss: iPadOS gives Apple's tablets their own operating system Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.