https://www.cnet.com/news/drip-coffee-101-essential-lessons-learned-testing-home-coffeemakers/
Drip coffee 101: Secrets to brewing the perfect cup - CNET CNET también está disponible en español. Ir a español Don't show this again Unemployment spike Space Force launch Coronavirus updates Nintendo Switch game reveals Polaroid Now Zoom, Skype, FaceTime tips COVID-19 Best Products All the best products Award Winners Versus Best Headphones Best Laptops Best Phones Best TVs Best Speakers Best Routers Best Smart Home Best Tablets Best Digital Cameras Best Hard Drives Best AV Receivers Best Media Streamers Best iPhone Apps Best Coffee Machines Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best TV Streaming Services Best VPN Services Best Massage Guns Best Mattresses Reviews All reviews Appliances Audio Cameras Cars Desktops Drones Headphones Laptops Media Streamers Monitors Networking Phones 5G Phones Printers Smart Home Speakers Tablets TVs VPNs Wearables & VR Web Hosting News All news 5G Apple Computers Culture Google Health & Wellness Internet Microsoft Mobile Newsletters Sci-Tech Security Tech Industry Special Features Photo Galleries Videos How To All how to Appliances Computers Gaming Home Entertainment Internet Mobile Apps Personal Finance Phones Photography Security Smart Home Streaming TV Tablets Wearable Tech Forums Smart Home All smart home Best smart home devices Guide to smart living News Tour our smart apartment Tour our smart house Product compatibility Amazon Alexa Apple HomeKit Belkin WeMo Google Assistant Lutron Nest Philips Hue Samsung SmartThings Wink Cars Roadshow Reviews Video News Pictures Recalls AutoComplete Carfection Cooley On Cars Car Audio Electric Cars Auto Buying Program Best cars Best Affordable Cars Best Crossovers Best Electric Cars Best Family Cars Best Fuel-Efficient Cars Best Hybrids Best Sedans Best SUVs Best Trucks Deals All deals The Cheapskate Antivirus Deals Identity Theft Protection Deals Mattress Deals Meal Kit Deals Password Manager Deals Pillow Deals Prescription Glasses Deals Tax Service Deals VPN Deals Web Hosting Deals All coupons Best Buy Promo Codes eBay Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Groupon Promo Codes GrubHub Coupons HP Coupons Office Depot Coupons Postmates Coupons Samsung Promo Codes Staples Coupons Target Coupons TurboTax Discounts Verizon Promo Codes Walmart Coupons Download 5G Editions Editions English Español China France Germany Japan Korea Search Go Hi, Settings My Profile Forums Sign Out Join / Sign In Drip coffee 101: Secrets to brewing the perfect cup Here's everything we learned testing a slew of drip coffeemakers. Brian Bennett October 21, 2014 7:00 AM PDT Brewing great coffee at home isn't as simple as you might think. Megan Wollerton/CNET We usually think of brewing a pot of drip coffee at home as a simple chore. While performing the basic task of pouring hot water over coffee grounds itself isn't too complicated, consistently achieving great-tasting results is far from easy. After putting a big group of home coffee machines through their paces, here are the key things I learned along the way. Not only did these techniques help me stack prominent coffee appliances against each other scientifically, I'm confident they will help you brew a better cup of joe at home too. Most of you won't want to go to all this trouble, but you've come to the right place if you're looking for a few tangible methods to up your home coffee game. Read: How to make the best cold-brew coffee Coffee in a nutshell At its core a cup of coffee is merely a water solution containing tiny particles of dissolved solids and compounds. You pour hot water over ground coffee beans. The resulting liquid then passes through a filter of some sort, either paper or gold mesh or steel strainer (as in the case of a French press). Depending on how you create this concoction though, this beverage can either taste truly sublime or be downright undrinkable. More confounding is that if you're not careful the results can potentially vary wildly, even when you use the same coffee beans from an identical bag roasted within the same batch and at the same time. This is why consistency is important in each step. The perfect cup of coffee is flavorful and complex, but not bitter. Brian Bennett/CNET The ideal brew According to the Specialty Coffee Association of America (SCAA) there is an ideal method for making coffee, called the Golden Cup Award, which will scientifically yield favorable and repeatable results. You should use between 3.25 and 4.25 ounces of coffee grounds per 64 ounces of water (90-120 grams of coffee to 1.9 litres of water). The water temperature must be at 200 degrees Fahrenheit (+ or - 2; that's equivalent to 93 Celcius) when it comes in contact with the grounds. Lastly, the total dissolved solids (TDS) measured in any given brew tastes best to most people when it falls between 1.15 and 1.35 percent. Sounds pretty straightforward doesn't it? I thought so too, until I delved a little further and realized it's a rarity for home coffeemakers to meet these criteria. Additionally, other factors greatly influence your results, such as the total brew time and coffee grind size. How to grind Looking at coffee enthusiasts' blogs and even the commenters on our own coffee maker reviews and it's clear there's a passionate debate about whether to use blade grinders or more expensive burr grinders to process your coffee beans. Some argue that ordinary bladed grinders (also sold as spice grinders) can't chop their contents with the right amount of uniformity. They're also typically not adjustable. Another theory about blade grinders is that the sheer kinetic energy unleashed by rapid slicing of the blades actually heats up the coffee particles -- essentially cooking them. This is said to alter the flavor (for the worse) of the final brewed beverage. I can't address this concern directly, but I can confirm that compared with beans ground in my personal spice grinder, the coffee I ran through an adjustable burr grinder (the Capresso Infinity Conical Burr Grinder, $100) was always the same size and texture. It's a huge difference from the inevitable bits of half-chopped beans I tend to experience using a basic blade grinder. This irregularity can conceivably affect the surface area of coffee grounds exposed to water. And since grind size directly impacts how many coffee particles are extracted into the solution (the finer the grounds the higher the extraction), uniformity is essential to producing repeatable results. This is is why I always burr ground my test beans (Costco House Blend) at the medium setting. Weighing and coffee-to-water ratio I know for many out there splurging on a fancy burr grinder isn't an option. Trust me, I've yet to win this household spousal argument. That's why I strongly advise investing in a cheap kitchen scale (approximately $15 or £12). Whether you rely on a sophisticated burr grinder or are stuck using a basic bladed coffee chopper, the only way you'll know for sure how much grounds you're brewing with is to weigh it. I also follow the SCAA guidelines and use 2 ounces of coffee per 45 ounces of water (57 grams per 1.3 liters). Keep in mind this water volume translates to roughly 10 French Tasse cups. Another benefit to weighing out your coffee grounds is that you don't have to mess around with those annoying coffee scoops many coffeemakers include with their machines. Not only are they grossly inaccurate since a "level" or "heaping" scoop can mean just about anything, they tend to be messy and hard to keep track of. Temperature and brew time are key factors in making tasty coffee. Brian Bennett/CNET Temperature and brew time As I stated before, the SCAA recommends that a home coffeemaker's brewing water reach the ideal temperature to properly whip up a tasty cup. Specifically the association says a machine's brew temp should hit 197.6 degrees Fahrenheit within the first minute brewing and not exceed 204.8 degrees. Also crucial is for a coffeemaker to expose its grounds to water between 4 and 8 minutes. You'd be surprised how many kitchen gadgets overshoot this brew time, taking 8, 9, even 10 minutes or more to complete the brewing cycle. The same is true about mustering the heat to achieve the proper brewing temperature. This is why I measure the operating temperature within the brewing chamber of every coffee machine I review. I also time the entire brewing cycle of a given coffeemaker to confirm whether it meets (or how far behind it is from) the SCAA's guidelines. Measurement and tasting For the final bit of scientific testing we use a device called a refractometer. This gizmo relies on a lens to detect the amount of total dissolved solids (TDS) in coffee we brew, using distilled water as the control reading. As I said above, the SCAA says the ideal TDS percentage is between 1.15 and 1.35 percent. After testing numerous coffee machines, I'm inclined to agree. True coffee geeks use refractometers. Brian Bennett/CNET As a matter of fact, the best products I've reviewed hit pretty much most if not all of the SCAA's standards. For instance my favorite gadget, the Bonavita BV1900TS , notched a brew time of 6 minutes (or under) and a TDS reading of 1.28 percent. The same goes for the Technivorm Moccamaster KBT 741 (1.2 TDS, 6 minutes). And for the record, coffee brewed with both products was consistently delicious. When all's said and done This is a lot of information to take in and I'm sure acting on these coffee brewing steps at home, especially in the early hours of the morning, is way too much to ask for. That said, I bet if you adopt even a few of these tactics, you'll be surprised by the positive results you can achieve. I for one will never go back to the dim days of measuring out coffee grounds without a scale. And please, for the love of life, grind your beans as close to brewing time as possible. Comments Notification on Notification off Coffee Makers Close Discuss: Drip coffee 101: Secrets to brewing the perfect cup Sign in to comment Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. English | Español MORE FROM CNET Upgrade to Windows 10 for free right now Amazon shopping hack Best Instant Pots Best live TV streaming services Windows 10 tips and tricks About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Help Center Licensing Policies Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement Ad Choice CA Privacy/Info We Collect CA Do Not Sell My Info Get the CNET app App Store | Google Play Follow © CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.