https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/you-can-teach-a-very-old-dog-new-tricks-says-lcbo-cio/418518
You can teach a very old dog new tricks, says LCBO CIO | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Managed Services & Outsourcing Public Sector Wireless & IoT You can teach a very old dog new tricks, says LCBO CIO Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: May 29th, 2019 While some people were displeased with the subdued rollout of legal cannabis in Ontario due to last-minute legislation changes and until this April, the absence of physical stores, the decision to focus on cloud, wireless and mobile was intentional, according to the Liquor Control Board of Ontario’s (LCBO) CIO. “What’s important to understand is that this is an unknown sector,” Michael Eubanks told IT World Canada recently after the C4 CIO Insider Breakfast event in Toronto. “And you need to be able to make investments that will allow you to pivot. Cloud services, mobile – they currently allow us to do that.” Michael Eubanks, LCBO CIO The Ontario Cannabis Retail Corporation (OCRC), a subsidiary of the Liquor Control Board of Ontario (LCBO), announced last year that Shopify’s online and mobile sales portals will be used to develop a framework for selling recreational cannabis. It’s set up so it can connect to OCRC’s head office systems and allow for shopping across desktop, mobile and in-store sales. When asked to comment on how cannabis sales have impacted the overall business, Eubanks was quick to say it was too early to tell. But for the organization to follow through and be able to sell cannabis to customers through a digital platform is an impressive feat for a wholesale company, which until five years ago, he said, was entrenched in legacy IT and comfortable with a 50-year-old business model. “Our business has gone through a transformation, and the demand on IT to deliver and deliver quickly has been expedited. The fact that I am able to use various services and spin up an environment with servers and other tools to develop new capabilities for the business, has been significant for us as it relates to how we’ve been able to transform and execute.” The growing number of data centres in Canada belonging to hyperscalers like Microsoft and AWS have been hugely beneficial, allowing Eubanks to tap into new cloud services that could potentially lead to all kinds of business efficiencies. But it’s not just a matter of adopting the latest technologies and hoping it transforms the business, Eubanks explained. It always begins and ends with business outcomes – what’s changed is that Eubanks himself, in tandem with other LCBO executives, are planning the future of the organization together. IT departments are no longer hanging out in a corner of the building, supporting hardware and software systems without explicit organizational approval. “Working with grocery stores, the venture into the .com era, those things required us to move quickly, so we’ve gotten pretty good at that, and technology is allowing that to happen,” he said. LCBO launched its ecommerce site July 2016 after 12 months of development, leveraging vendors such as IBM for the website’s basic platform and hosting infrastructure and Adobe Analytics and Microstrategy for content management. When asked what the LCBO looks for in its partners, the answer was simple – a clear understanding of their business, and more importantly, a dedication to security and data privacy. “One of the things we hold true is the maintenance of transparency and fairness. When we work with our channel partners, that conversation is first and foremost.” Related Download Sponsor: Kronos Your ERP System Is Leaking How to Better Use a Time and Labour Data Collection System to Plug Holes Caused by Fraud and Waste. Read More Managed Services & Outsourcing, Public Sector, Wireless & IoT Canadian cio, LCBO Hong Kong delegates make strong pitch to businesses at Collision, point to greener pastures overseas Hashtag Trending - Uber bans misbehaving riders; Huawei can make SD Cards again; Google bans apps that sell weed About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content CIO priorities reflect changing times, according to new report How Canada can end the false sense of digital identity security ‘Being a cloud-enabled government is a very positive thing for BC’: Insightful chat with CJ Ritchie, CIO at the Government of British Columbia New categories, new opportunities for Canadian CIOs at 2020 CIO of the Year Awards Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada