https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/why-pizza-party-security-training-doesnt-cut-it-anymore/427698
Why pizza party security training doesn't cut it anymore | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Why pizza party security training doesn’t cut it anymore Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: February 24th, 2020 When it comes to company security, “human error” is a frequently identified factor. However, many organizations have found that their people can in fact be deployed as their best defense against attack. It all comes down to the quality of security education and training these people receive. Proof can be found in the numbers: Security-related risks are reduced by 70 per cent when businesses invest in cybersecurity training and awareness (Source) Even a modest investment in cyber security awareness and training has a 72 per cent chance of significantly reducing the business impact of a cyber attack (Source) Yet security education and awareness training is more than a question of if; what a company offers its people is just as critical. High engagement is key. After all, what’s the good of putting employees through round after round of security training when they’re not engaged, when the mere thought of having to attend a session makes them drowsy or desperate to find the nearest exit? Register for: “Why your cyber security effort deserves more than pizza party training” Among the elements missing from or wrong with most security training: It’s not engaging – boring, out of context, or too long It’s not interactive – doesn’t give learners the opportunity to interact with the material and put into practice what they’re learned It doesn’t offer a chance to measure success – It doesn’t give attendees the chance to measure their learning It’s all scare tactics – it doesn’t empower employees to do better, but tries to frighten them into changing their behaviour “We’re always hearing about how people are the key piece of company security,” said Michael Ball, Virtual CISO / Information Security Adviser at TeamCISO. “However, the big challenge for companies is to offer the kind of training that leads to better outcomes for and more intelligent decisions made by employees.” “Pushing dry, low-quality training sessions on employees will accomplish very little, and can actually have the effect of annoying and/or confusing people. Businesses need to focus on providing security awareness training that’s personal and graspable. There really is no other way to get things to ‘stick.’” Looking for a starting point? On March 24th, ITWC CIO and Chief Digital Officer Jim Love will be joined by CIRA Business Development Product Manager Mark Gaudet for an hour-long chat about the latest developments in cyber security awareness training. In this free webinar session, Love and Gaudet will also be looking at how companies can engage and transform their people into cyber security evangelists. The session will include a quick look at CIRA’s Cybersecurity Awareness Training platform. Register now for “Why your cyber security effort deserves more than pizza party training” Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace awareness, Cira, Cyber Security, employees, security, training Huawei launches Mate Xs foldable smartphone Hashtag Trending - Google warns against Edge; startups losing staff; work-life balance is dying About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity An innovative framework that will help the IoT industry scale into the billions How to stonewall the hackers trying to to get around your MFA Movement starts to have Canada declare Sept. 1 as International Women in Cyber Day Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada