https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hyundai-autron-selects-blackberry-qnx-to-power-autonomous-vehicle-software/423773
Hyundai Autron selects Blackberry QNX to power autonomous vehicle software | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Software Hyundai Autron selects Blackberry QNX to power autonomous vehicle software Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: November 7th, 2019 BlackBerry has announced that Hyundai Autron, a subsidiary of Hyundai Motor Group, has selected BlackBerry QNX to power the company’s next generation of advanced driver-assistance systems (ADAS) and autonomous driving software platform. “Hyundai Autron develops the Hyundai Motor standard software platform based on the international AUTOSAR standard,” said Dae-Heung Moon, CEO at Hyundai Autron. “Powered by BlackBerry QNX technology, together we will deliver ADAS and autonomous driving software platforms that will set a new standard for the automotive industry.” The solution that Hyundai Autron will be using is called QNX OS for Safety, which is a software that specializes in safety and mission-critical applications, such as ADAS and autonomous driving. “We are excited to work with Hyundai Autron to provide next-generation automobiles with a secured ADAS and autonomous driving software platform,” said John Chen, BlackBerry’s chief executive officer and executive chairman, said in a press release. “Functional safety and security are top priorities in connected and autonomous vehicles. BlackBerry QNX software meets the ISO 26262 ASIL-D level of certification which is the most stringent safety classification for the automotive market.” BlackBerry QNX has the highest level of automotive certification for functional safety and has its software currently installed on 150 million cars on the road. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Software BlackBerry, BlackBerry QNX, Hyundai, Hyundai Autron Preparing for the second wave of digital era change BlackBerry and Canadian Girl Guides launch new cybersecurity badge About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content BlackBerry releases updates to SecuSUITE for Government and AtHoc Crisis Communication BlackBerry report says data losses increasing due to cloud misconfiguration Blackberry launches Digital Workplace TCL Communication to discontinue sales of BlackBerry devices Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada