https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/5-tech-job-fairs-to-check-out-before-the-year-is-over/422592
5 tech job fairs to check out before the year is over | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers IT Workplace 5 tech job fairs to check out before the year is over Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: October 8th, 2019 Exploring your career options in the Canadian technology sector? There are several places to start. Some of the biggest talent job fairs are being organized exclusively for tech candidates across Canada over the next two months. From application developers to analysts, these job fairs and hiring events will host multiple job openings across all tech domains in Canada. Here is a list of 5 tech job fairs you should look out for in 2019: TOTech Career Fair A hiring event, designed exclusively for tech candidates, TOTech Career Fair will be welcoming applications in IT, developing/programming, AI, cybersecurity, robotics, fintech, big data and more. The fair will host top tech employers who will speak about their impact on the ever-evolving tech industry in Canada and beyond. Some of the leading tech companies that will be exhibiting at the fair include Accenture, Global Payments, EQ Bank, Robert Half Technology, General Assembly and more. When: Oct. 8, 2019 (1 p.m. to 6 p.m. EDT) Where: Roy Thomson Hall (60 Simcoe St, Toronto, ON M5J 2H5) Tech Talent Vancouver Job Fair This recruiting event aims to connect some of the fastest growing companies in Vancouver to top tech talent in the city. The Tech Talent Vancouver Job Fair, produced in partnership with Techcouver, provides hiring companies with the opportunity to pitch a crowd of skilled tech candidates on why they are a good employer brand and the top company to work for in British Columbia. The participating employers will be hiring for more than 300 open tech positions. Some of the feature exhibitors at the Fair include Clio, Allocadia, Carbon60, Delta-Q Technologies, Wenco, PayByPhone, Thinkific and more. When: Oct. 24, 2019 (6 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. PDT) Where: Vancouver Convention Centre – West 1055 Canada Place Vancouver, British Columbia V6C 0C3 Women in Tech Sales Career Fest Delivered by The Revenue U and in collaboration with TalentMinded, the Women in Tech Sales Career Fest has been designed for women who want to pivot into tech sales or advance their career in the field. It aims to increase the percentage of women in tech sales with the help of a tech sales bootcamp training program. As part of the event, employers get to engage and hire more women in tech sales in two ways – bootcamp partnership and career fest. The employer partnership package gives employers an access to join the fest’s speed interviewing event with graduates as well as have the bootcamp cohort to host a training day in their office. The cohort comprises of 25 students who have been chosen to complete a 4-day bootcamp training program to learn about tech sales and the tech software sales playbook. The employer, on the other hand, gets to spend time with students, share insights into their sales organization and organizational culture, thereby promoting their employer brand and value proposition. They also get to showcase their company as well as career opportunities as exhibitors at the fest and meet with female candidates seeking career opportunities in tech sales. Past employer partners include Cisco, Uber Eats, Blue J Legal, PagerDuty, Monster, Softchoice, PointClickCare, Swift Medical, , Loopio, Tulip Retail, and many more. When: Oct. 25, 2019 (8 a.m. to 2 p.m. EDT) Where: MaRS Discovery District 101 College Street Toronto, ON M5G 1L7 TechTalent Toronto Job Fair This recruiting event aims to connect some of the fastest growing companies in Toronto with top tech talent in the city. Companies from across the city will be present to hire for more than 300 open tech positions. Uberflip, Carbon60 and goeasy will be among the hiring companies at the event. When: Nov. 6, 2019 (6 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. EST) Where: Steam Whistle Brewing 255 Bremner Boulevard Toronto, Ontario M5V 3M9 Career Fair for High Tech and Finance Professionals From software developer, software development team leader, project manager, IT service desk support, network administrator and electronic engineer to DB administrator, marketing specialist, product marketing manager, customer service representative, account sales professionals, HR generalist, HR coordinator, accountant, AR or AP clerk, payroll administrator and financial analyst, the Career Fair for High Tech and Finance Professionals might have more than a few job openings for all the participants. This career fair encourages newcomers and franco speaking job seekers to take part. When: Nov. 8, 2019 (1:30 p.m. to 4 p.m. PST) Where: Richmond WorkBC Center 8111 Granville Avenue Richmond, BC V6Y 1P5 Careers, IT Workplace Canadian jobs, career, career development, recruiting Hashtag Trending - Ransomware cripples hospitals; new Amazon tablets; Sonos Speaker subscription? Canadian credit reporting agency compromised through third party About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Accenture announces $1.1 million grant to Acces Employment to develop AI bot for job seekers Uber officially opens its new engineering hub in Toronto Finger Food investment in Calgary a ‘call to action’ for tech companies globally, says CSO The middle years; Building the strength in your team Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada