https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/think-youre-using-ai-effectively-in-security-youre-probably-not-says-security-expert/416728
Think you're using AI effectively in security? You're probably not, says security expert | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Infrastructure Privacy & Security Think you’re using AI effectively in security? You’re probably not, says security expert Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: April 8th, 2019 Nearly 60 per cent of businesses have automated their security and incident response tools, but only at a very minimal level, according to a new SANS Institute study. The D3 Security sponsored study on automation and integration indicates that while most respondents agree automation isn’t killing jobs in the security field, few have gone past automating the most basic and repetitive tasks. But the low hanging fruit yields quick, measurable results, says Stan Engelbrecht, D3 Security’s director of cybersecurity practice, and gives skilled staff more time to focus on bigger picture items. “There’s a lot of manual clicks and copy and pasting that doesn’t need to happen,” he says. What metrics are needed to capture the state of automation? The level of automation for key tools. Source: 2019 SANS Automation & Integration Survey. But outside of those repetitive tasks, security teams are having a hard time convincing executives to invest in more sophisticated automation that allows for real-time analytics and endpoint device management. Nearly 60 per cent of the 218 technology professionals – 70 per cent of whom described themselves as security pros, the rest are categorized as analysts and upper management – claimed budget restrictions were the number one concern around automation. That was very closely followed by resource constraints and lack of integration standards. “If you are going to automate, this has to come from the top down. If there isn’t an executive management buy-in, it won’t work,” says Engelbrecht. In a nutshell, everyone’s level of automation is relatively low, few are innovating at a high level, and most businesses are heading into the middle. No one is using AI and machine learning. AI not there yet, not even close “I have not seen good implementation of AI or machine learning, where you’re actually able to prove and show exactly what it’s doing,” says Engelbrecht. But there shouldn’t be any rush to try and achieve this. In fact, before integrating basic automation, companies should start by creating a playbook, a collection of processes and operating procedures that conform with the policies and culture of an organization, something respondents had trouble doing in their open-ended responses, the study notes. Fast-tracking automation can actually be dangerous, explains Engelbrecht. The toughest, most malicious cases still need hands-on, critical thinking from a security analyst. If he or she is suddenly cut off from the flow of information, bad habits are sure to form. More than 57 per cent of respondents anticipate changes to the focus of their use of automation in the next 12 months. Nearly 30 per cent remain unsure. The banking industry has been far more successful at integrating automation, according to Engelbrecht. “When you walk into a bank and having a lot of those early conversations, that whole process, and knowing what exactly that needs to be automated, is easy,” he notes. “Healthcare is another good example. They’re getting better, but still behind the curve.” Artificial Intelligence, Infrastructure, Privacy & Security automation, d3 St. Clair College producing tech-oriented students while bridging the gender gap Hashtag Trending - Google dissolves AI ethics board; Amazon planning to launch satellites; Google Play Music killed About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: Fortinet Learn the three words that will unlock your cybersecurity transformation Want to be more agile? Get containers for your apps Dell makes a strong case for IoT solutions IDC event gives glimpses of the post-2020 workplace Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada