https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-shopping-sites-victimized-a-slip-at-microsoft-and-cryptocurrency-blues/418306
Cyber Security Today: Shopping sites victimized, a slip at Microsoft and cryptocurrency blues | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today: Shopping sites victimized, a slip at Microsoft and cryptocurrency blues Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: May 24th, 2019 Shopping sites victimized, a slip at Microsoft and cryptocurrency blues Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Friday May 24th. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanda.com. Trust is at the heart of buying products online. But blind trust will get your burned. This comes to mind with a report from security vendor Malwarebytes that criminals have found a new way to steal credit card and login information by compromising particular e-commerce sites. Usually to start the payment process a site may ask you to enter your previously registered email address. Then the system pulls up payment options. The scam interrupts that process by adding a phony but realistic checkout page that also asks you for your credit card information as well as your email address. This data is captured by criminals. After filling the page out, you then get transferred back to the real checkout page, where you again have to enter your credit card number. And that’s a tip-off you’ve been suckered. It’s not easy for shoppers to see the signs a web page payment system has been hacked. One way is by noticing if there’s a different routine for payment than the last time you used the site. Still, the onus is on shopping sites and payment providers to get tough, improve their web page security and regularly check their code. A lot of things that make computing secure on your laptop or smartphone we don’t see. One of them is the invisible exchange of what are called digital certificates between devices and web sites that verify connections are secure. That’s the HTTPS you see in the address bar. Companies have to buy and remember to renew certificates, or there can be trouble. Microsoft found that out this week when users tried to log into LinkedIn and got a warning that their connection wasn’t secure. SecurityWeek reports Microsoft quickly renewed the certificate. The lesson to corporate security pros is that there are processes for keeping an eye on digital certificates. This shouldn’t happen. An Australian government IT contractor faces up to 10 years in prison for using government computers to mine for cryptocurrency. That’s the act of using a computer to solve complex mathematical questions and get free digital money. Police allege the man earned about $6,000 in US currency. Speaking of cryptocurrency, this week Dutch authorities shut down a website called Bestmixer that was helping criminals launder cryptocurrency. Another win for the good guys. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomo Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Hashtag Trending - A brewing tech cold war, Facebook takes on fake accounts, Comcast eyes healthcare Give Canadians privacy rights in new law, says federal privacy commissioner About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada