https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canadas-new-drone-safety-regulations-require-registration-and-certification/413924
Canada's new drone safety regulations require registration and certification | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Public Sector Canada’s new drone safety regulations require registration and certification Meagan Simpson @megesimpson Published: January 9th, 2019 Transport Canada has announced that as of June 1st, anyone flying a drone is required to register their drone and obtain a pilot certificate. According to a press release, the new rules apply to “all drone pilots and drones between 250 grams and 25 kg that are operated within the drone pilot’s visual line-of-sight, regardless of whether the drone is flown for fun, work or research.” The federal government is outlining two categories for drones: basic and advanced, both of which require registration and certification. People flying drones – or drone pilots as they are referred to – will need to pass an online exam and get a pilot certification. The drones themselves will also need to be registered and be marked with that registration number. The minimum age now for flying drones is 14 years old for the basic license and 16 years old for the advanced license, unless they are being supervised by someone that has the proper certifications. There is a third category that applies to drones that don’t meet standards for the basic or advanced categories and those drone pilots will be required to apply for a ‘Special Flight Operations Certificate’ before flying said drone. Drones will also need to follow guidelines for flights which include staying below an altitude of 122 metres and statying away from air traffic, such as airports. Transport Canada stated in the release that it is attempting to toe the line between public and aviation safety and at the same time encouraging innovation and economic growth. “We’ve listened closely to feedback from Canadians and have updated our regulations to balance practicality and the safe use of drones. Drones are part of an important economic sector with significant potential to improve lives and connect communities across the country,” Minister of Trasport Marc Garneau stated in the release. “Our new regulations will create new opportunities for Canadians by establishing a safe and predictable regulatory environment where the industry can innovate and where recreational and non-recreational drone pilots can safely access Canadian airspace,” he said. Drone pilots will be required to have proof of registration and certification readily available while flying. Transport Canada stated that an electronic version on a mobile device will suffice. The new rules will come into effect June 1st. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Public Sector Drones, Transport Canada Cyber Security Today: Jan. 9, 2019 -- A texting bank scam aimed at Canadians; a WhatsApp hoax; hot tub trouble Let Toronto Public Library hold smart city data, says Board of Trade About Meagan Simpson Meagan Simpson is a Jr. staff writer for IT World Canada. A graduate of Carleton University’s journalism program, she loves sports, travelling, reading and photography, and when not covering tech news she can be found cuddled up on the couch with her cat and a good book. Follow Follow @megesimpson on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content New global drone standards will help address quality control for a growing market, says CEO of InDro Robotics Hashtag Trending – New privacy tools from Google, Alexa goes job hunting, UPS delivery drones approved Hashtag Trending – Gatwick’s drone delays, in Russia AI hears you, LG’s clear TV Hashtag Trending – Gatwick’s drone delays, in Russia AI hears you, LG’s clear TV Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada