https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/td-bank-creates-ai-powered-spotify-playlist-to-win-contest/407604
TD Bank creates AI-powered Spotify playlist to win contest | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence TD Bank creates AI-powered Spotify playlist to win contest Meagan Simpson @megesimpson Published: July 31st, 2018 Layer 6, a Toronto-based AI firm owned by TD Bank Group, has won the international Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) RecSys Challenge for the second year running. The artificial intelligence (AI) company, acquired by TD Bank in January, competed against other major technology companies in this year’s RecSys dataset challenge put on by Spotify. AI firms competed to created personalized playlists based on limited information in this contest. Source: Spotify “TD has great support for these types of competitions and our motivation here is to continue to challenge ourselves to be able to think differently, with new data sets and of course to be able to track world-class talent,” Tomi Poutanen, TD’s chief AI officer and Layer 6 co-founder told ITBusiness.ca According to a release from TD, the competitors had to create personalized music playlists based on Spotify’s newly released Million Playlist Dataset, which includes 1 million playlists created by users. The AI systems were given limited information about the playlists, in some cases 10 songs, and in others only one song, or simply a title. By winning the competition, Layer 6 was in good company with previous winners including Chinese ecommerce giant Alibaba and major Russian search engine Yandex. Each year, ACM RecSys holds a different challenge at their annual conference, with the challenge being run by different companies offering unique datasets. This year’s challenge hosted by Spotify was actually a perfect fit for Poutanen and the Layer 6 team. The company may have only been created in 2016, but its team has been working on personalization systems for over seven years, through its company Milq Inc., which is a website that curates personalized playlists for everything including music, sports, and literature. Poutanen said during the challenge they used AI, in collaboration with the University of Toronto professor Scott Sanner and his research student, to understand the sequential nature of music playlists and create a natural flow, by using a strong deep learning component. Banking and AI As ITBusiness.ca reported, TD collaborates with Layer 6 to improve customer experience. “Banking is all about putting the right offer and conversation in front of the customer at the right time and via the right channel. That means being able to anticipate customer needs and future actions the customers may take to direct the conversation and experience in that direction,” said Poutenan. He stated AI, specifically deep and machine learning, allows companies like TD to take all the information they have on a customer and put it into a framework that analyzes the data without any the guesswork associated with the traditional analytic approaches. “Consumer expectations now are largely driven by their experience with big tech companies like Netflix, iTunes or Amazon, all these services are highly personalized, so the expectation of the customer of what a digital experience should be continues to go up. It’s important for banks to keep up with consumer expectations,” said Poutanen. Canadian roots Poutanen and fellow Layer 6 co-founder Jordan Jacobs are also co-founders of the Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence. He said they “had a vision for creating an institute that was larger than the University of Toronto, that could more closely collaborate with the industry and really help lift the whole technology sector and economic sector with the application of AI.” The pair have been major players in the Canadian AI industry every since and it was winning last year’s RecSys 2017 challenge, that got Layer 6’s AI system some notoriety. “Last year we won by a landslide,” said Poutanen, “showing that our framework is quite unique and that attracted a lot of attention to us. We were really the first company that publicly went out and spoke about deep learning used in recommendations setting. Artificial Intelligence AI, artificial intelligence, Layer 6, Spotify, TD Bank, Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence Exposing SamSam ransomware Samsung plans early Galaxy Note 9 release in response to weak quarter About Meagan Simpson Meagan Simpson is a Jr. staff writer for IT World Canada. A graduate of Carleton University’s journalism program, she loves sports, travelling, reading and photography, and when not covering tech news she can be found cuddled up on the couch with her cat and a good book. Follow Follow @megesimpson on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content The bad guys are arming themselves with AI, but so are we, says Darktrace’s country manager for Canada 10 women advancing AI in Canada Gartner says nearly half of privacy compliance technology to rely on AI by 2023 Inflection Point I An interview with AltaML’s managing director about AI’s role in shaping Calgary’s digital future Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada