https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-montreal-teen-arrested-in-cryptocurrency-scam-eu-considering-suspending-facial-recognition-alphabet-passes-the-trillion-dollar-mark/426254
Hashtag Trending – Montreal teen arrested in cryptocurrency scam; EU considering suspending facial recognition; Alphabet passes the trillion-dollar mark. | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Montreal teen arrested in cryptocurrency scam; EU considering suspending facial recognition; Alphabet passes the trillion-dollar mark. Tom Li @itworldca Published: January 20th, 2020 Welcome listeners, hope you’re all doing well this Monday morning. The top three stories to take in right now include a Montreal teen arrested in cryptocurrency scam bust, the European Union considering banning facial recognition, and Alphabet passing the trillion-dollar mark. Thank you for tuning in to Hashtag Trending, it’s Monday, January 20th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Google, a Montreal teen has been charged in relation to a series of cryptocurrency scams, in which he helped to steal over $50 million from the US and $300,000 from Canada. The SIM swapping attack–where attackers gain ahold of a phone number–involved dozens of victims. At just 19 years old, Samy Bensaci of Montreal has been charged with fraud and personate with intent. As an added note, the Toronto police warns everyone to call their cellphone providers immediately when they lose service. Trending on Reddit, the European Union may ban facial recognition technology for up to 5 years. The reason? It needs time to figure out how to prevent it from being abused. According to Reuters, an 18-page proposal by EU’s executive recommended new guidelines for the use of AI–although exemptions may be made for security and research purposes. The proposal is set to undergo further reviews next month. Lastly, trending on LinkedIn, Google’s parent company Alphabet as finally joined the one trillion dollar club. The company crossed the mark on Thursday, joining Apple and Microsoft in the trillion-dollar gang and becoming the third most-valued U.S. tech company. According to Reuters, Google’s share price spiked by 17 per cent in the past three months. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Windows 7 is dead, but 25% of large businesses in Canada are still running it on desktops, says IDC survey Cyber Security Today - Income tax, data breach refund and phone scams revealed About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada