https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-uber-bans-misbehaving-riders-huawei-can-make-sd-cards-again-google-bans-apps-that-sell-weed/418522
Hashtag Trending – Uber bans misbehaving riders; Huawei can make SD Cards again; Google bans apps that sell weed | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Uber bans misbehaving riders; Huawei can make SD Cards again; Google bans apps that sell weed Tom Li @itworldca Published: May 30th, 2019 Uber will ban unruly passengers, Huawei is once again on the SD Association list, Google to ban marijuana selling apps. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. It’s Thursday, May 30th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Google, unruly Uber passengers, not drivers, will lose access to the app. In an announcement made on Thursday, Uber said it’s looking to update its community guideline to shut out riders with a significantly below average rating. Before ban strikes, Uber says the offending passenger would receive numerous notifications of their standing and urge them to change their behavior. If the passenger’s rating doesn’t improve after these warnings, then Uber would apply a permanent ban. While Uber has yet to disclose the rating threshold, it’s a good idea to put on your best behavior. Trending on Google again, Huawei was temporarily banned from the SD Association. In recent weeks, the Chinese telecom company has been under fire from various U.S. tech companies after being placed on an Entity list due to a recent executive order from Trump. Following the executive order, Google, Microsoft, and many others have limited their business relations with Huawei. It was also rejected from standard organizations like the SD Association, which means it could no longer produce SD storage cards. But for reasons unknown, Huawei has been recently added back onto the SD Association list, possibly due to the 90 day grace period granted by the U.S. Lastly, from my Feedly lineup, Google has revised its Play Store content policy to prohibit the distribution of marijuana. The updated policy is a bit strange: it’s still okay for apps to promote marijuana use, but any transaction of weed would land the app in the ban zone. Therefore, as long as the existing marijuana purchase apps don’t actually make transactions, they’re still good to live in the Google Play Store. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Careers hashtag, hashtag trending, podcasts You can teach a very old dog new tricks, says LCBO CIO Amazon, Microsoft, Apple pressured by lawmakers at Ottawa hearing on big data firms About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada