https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/collision-2019-td-calls-for-banks-to-collaborate-more-with-fintech-startups-on-ai-solutions/418253
Collision 2019: TD calls for banks to collaborate more with fintech startups on AI solutions | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Managed Services & Outsourcing Collision 2019: TD calls for banks to collaborate more with fintech startups on AI solutions Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: May 22nd, 2019 AI and machine learning have become a large part of the financial industry, and some within the industry are calling for banks to be more open to collaboration with AI startups to accelerate the implementation of AI in banking. TD Bank Group’s group head of innovation, technology, and shared services, Michael Rhodes, who spoke on a panel related to these issues at Collision in Toronto, says TD’s willingness to work with AI startups has greatly accelerated its own use of the emerging technology. Michael Rhodes, group head of innovation, technology, and shared services for TD Canada Trust. “As banks have evolved over the years, we found that our data was quite distributed. And what artificial intelligence and machine learning bring to the table is the ability to aggregate that information so we can understand the context we are dealing with the customer,” indicated Rhodes in an exclusive interview with ITWC. “So we can give them the right service, the right advice, the right content… in ways we couldn’t have five years ago.” It was a need to be able to provide that type of service that led TD to acquire Toronto-based startup Layer 6 January 2018. Layer 6 was founded in 2016 as a firm specializing in using machine learning models to analyze data to improve how individual customers are served. Rhodes said that this acquisition greatly accelerated TD’s roadmap of implementing AI and machine learning in its practises. “When we acquired Layer 6 we jump-started our ability to actually start deploying real use cases in a very significant way. And then also, it kind of forced an increase in the metabolic rate of how we took data, applied machine learning to it, and deployed it throughout the enterprise,” said Rhodes. “The models that Tomi and the Layer 6 team build are part of the story. And so the whole ecosystem is put together quite nicely.” Co-founder of Layer 6 and now chief AI officer for TD, Tomi Poutanen, says the acquisition has not only sped up TD’s machine learning deployment but also allowed his company to take bigger risks in its innovative efforts; risks it would not have been able to take as an independent startup. Tomi Poutanen, co-founder of Layer 6 and chief AI officer for TD Canada Trust. “For us, it was a decision on being able to do more strategic and more broad AI models and more ambitious AI work than we could have accomplished as an independent fintech service. If you’re outside knocking on the door, you may have success deploying one particular AI system. And as a startup, you look to then monetize that capability by selling it over and over and over again. The organization starts looking very much like a sales organization that’s good at sales and good at integration and good at security, but at the expense of investing in an AI challenge,” said Poutanen. “So as a set of data geeks, we really want to focus on building our AI expertise and our capability. And being inside of the bank, we’re able to do just that.” It is the collaborative efforts between banking institutions and fintech startups that Rhodes says will help accelerate the use of AI in the financial industry as a whole; in a manner that is mutually beneficial to both sides. “Fintech companies will identify generally a pretty narrow problem that needs to be solved around a specific customer segment. They’ll build some code and an application around that. But the fintech need a bank because we have a customer base, we have a regulatory umbrella, the funding and the balance sheet, and everything that goes with that. So we are always looking for opportunities to partner with fintech.” *A previous version of this story had a byline for Alex Coop. Buckley Smith is the actual writer of this story. We apologize for the error. Artificial Intelligence, Managed Services & Outsourcing collision, FinTech, startups, TD Bank Manufacturing spending billions on IoT, but still can’t patch Windows or remember passwords Cyber Security Today: Don't be fooled by this email, Canada's Digital Charter, and political party security. About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Toronto’s Collision conference goes online due to coronavirus U of T launches FinTech boot camp Diversity more than just meeting numbers, everyone needs to ‘go all in’ says #movethedial founder TD launches self-serve block features for credit cards Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada