https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/amazon-dominates-most-trusted-e-commerce-brands-in-latest-brandspark-study/420973
Amazon dominates most trusted e-commerce brands, according to BrandSpark study | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Source: Georgijevic, Getty Images Ecommerce Mobility Amazon dominates most trusted e-commerce brands in latest BrandSpark study Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: August 19th, 2019 Many have touted this to be an era of consumer choice, but it can still be extremely difficult to cut through all the marketing slang, buzzwords and other jargon used to get down to how trustworthy a brand or product really is. BrandSpark International tries to aid in this struggle by releasing its annual winners of the BrandSpark Most Trusted Awards. These awards are based on a survey of 6,900 Canadians and encompass a vast range of e-commerce categories as well as a range of categories for major service providers. “In an increasingly online world, trust has never been more important,” says Robert Levy, the president of BrandSpark. “Shoppers are seeking new and different signifiers of trust, such as online reviews and consumer-based awards on brand websites. Being a winning brand in the 2019 BrandSpark Most Trusted Awards is a major accomplishment. The program tells shoppers which companies are trusted by other Canadians. This allows consumers to make better purchasing decisions, as trust is the greatest indicator of delivering value and a good customer experience.” Along with the winners in each category, the survey results also brought to light a few different factors that Canadian consumers rely on when determining the trustworthiness of a brand. 71 per cent rely on unfiltered customer reviews being featured on a brand’s website; with many going so far as to say that they will refuse to buy from a brand without those available. 75 per cent said that when a company actually listens to and responds to reviews and feedback, they feel more comfortable shopping with that brand, as they believe them to be more trustworthy. 66 per cent value discounts and special offers that are customized for them based on the websites they visit. E-commerce winners For many shoppers, online or otherwise, Amazon.com, Inc. has absolutely changed the game. Not just in terms of how brands sell, but how consumers shop. In fact, according to a study from BrandSpark, two out of every three shoppers said it has changed how they buy things. “It’s important for e-commerce retailers to make shoppers confident that they won’t face these issues when ordering from their site,” says Adam Bellisario, director of the BrandSpark Most Trusted Awards program. “Since shoppers can easily move to another retailer online, it’s crucial for e-commerce retailers to build trust and loyalty with their shoppers. The BMTA claim and logo is a proven way to communicate that the site has already earned the trust of the Canadian shopper.” As you can see from the chart below, Amazon really took hold of the e-commerce industry as a whole. E-COMMERCE CATEGORY 2019 WINNING BRAND(S) Baby & Children’s Clothing Old Navy / Carter’s OshKosh / The Children’s Place (tie) Baby Supplies / Gear Amazon Beauty & Cosmetics Sephora Books Amazon Cameras & Photography Supplies* Amazon Electronic Gaming / Videogames Amazon Health & Wellness Amazon Home Décor Amazon / Wayfair (tie) Home Entertainment (Televisions, Stereos, etc.)* Amazon / Best Buy (tie) Home Improvement / Renovation The Home Depot Household Cleaning & Laundry Products* Amazon Housewares / Kitchenware Amazon Laptop / Desktop Computers Best Buy Major Home Appliances* The Home Depot Mattresses Amazon Men’s Clothing / Fashion Amazon Personal Electronics (Headphones, Bluetooth Speakers, etc.) Amazon Pet Food & Supplies Amazon Recreation & Outdoor Gear* Amazon Shoes / Footwear Amazon Small Home Appliances Amazon Sporting Goods Sport Chek Toys & Games Amazon Women’s Clothing / Fashion Amazon / Hudson’s Bay (tie) Service provider winners While BrandSpark awarded a multitude of categories for service providers, we have narrowed them down to categories related to information technology. Cellular Network Provider: Telus Communications/Rogers Communications Inc./Bell Canada (tie) Cellular Network Provider (West): Telus Communications Cellular Network Provider (Ontario): Rogers Communications Inc. Cellular Network Provider (Quebec): Videotron Cellular Network Provider (Atlantic): Bell Canada Discount Cellular Network Provider: Koodo Mobile High-Speed Internet Provider: Bell Canada Music Streaming Service: Spotify Technology S.A. TV Service Provider: Bell Canada Ecommerce, Mobility BrandSpark, eCommerce Cyber Security Today - LibreOffice and password managers need updates, hotel chain stung and more Hashtag Trending - U.S. delays Huawei ban; IKEA diving into smart home market; Disney streaming coming to Canada About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content eBay announces plan to launch end-to-end fulfillment service for sellers Shopify Unite day 2: Buying clothes by playing virtual dress up Shopify Unite Day 1: New languages, currencies, POS, and Shopify Plus Best Buy Canada continuing to thrive through an eCommerce revolution Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada