https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canada-backs-u-s-hackers-likely-linked-to-china-compromised-service-providers-here/413367
Canada backs U.S., hackers 'likely' linked to China compromised service providers here | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by Kagenmi from Thinkstock.com Privacy & Security Public Sector Canada backs U.S., hackers ‘likely’ linked to China compromised service providers here Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: December 21st, 2018 Using careful language, Canada has backed U.S .allegations that for about 12 years two Chinese citizens hacked managed Internet service providers in several countries to get intellectual property and confidential business and technological information of businesses. In a statement on Thursday, Canada’s electronic spy agency, the Communications Security Establishment said it “also assesses that it is almost certain that actors likely associated with the People’s Republic of China (PRC) Ministry of State Security (MSS) are responsible for the compromise of several managed service providers [in Canada] beginning as early as 2016.” The government didn’t identify the Canadian providers hacked. As a sector, managed service providers include major telcos Bell, Rogers, Telus as well as companies like IBM Canada, CGI, Scalar Decisions, Navantis, Herjevec Group, HighVail and others Managed service providers would be ideal targets because they link to many customer networks. The compromise of one provider can be a gateway into many private and public sector organizations. Related Articles Canadian government teams up with Telus to modernize internal telecom services The government of Canada is looking to update its internal telecommunications systems and reduce the costs of supporting legacy infrastructure.... October 5th, 2017 Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Bell, CGI win federal email contract BCE Inc’s Bell Canada and CGI Information Systems have won a multimillion dollar seven year contract to run the federal... June 26th, 2013 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Acrodex lands 7-year deal with Alberta government Edmonton-based IT services provider Acrodex Inc. has landed a seven-year contract valued at over $70 million with the Government of... March 19th, 2010 Jennifer Kavur @itworldca The Globe and Mail quoted Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale on Thursday as also being publicly careful with his words. Asked if China has broken the terms of the 2017 anti-cyber-espionage agreement it signed with the Trudeau government, Goodale replied that “obviously, we are deeply disappointed if a commitment made in the past has been violated, and we think it is important to point out when that occurs,” On Thursday the U.S. unsealed an indictment charging Zhu Hua and Zhang Shilong with conspiracy to commit computer intrusions, conspiracy to commit wire fraud, and aggravated identity theft. The indictment alleges Zhu and Zhang were members of a hacking group operating in China known within the cyber security community as Advanced Persistent Threat 10 (the APT10 Group). While they worked for a company in China called Huaying Haitai Science and Technology Development Company (Huaying Haitai) , it is alleged they worked with the Chinese Ministry of State Security’s Tianjin State Security Bureau. “The indictment alleges that the defendants were part of a group that hacked computers in at least a dozen countries and gave China’s intelligence service access to sensitive business information,” said Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein. “This is outright cheating and theft, and it gives China an unfair advantage at the expense of law-abiding businesses and countries that follow the international rules in return for the privilege of participating in the global economic system.” The APT10 Group allegedly obtained unauthorized access to the computers of a service provider that had offices in the Southern District of New York and compromised data of customers involved in banking and finance, telecommunications and consumer electronics, medical equipment, packaging, manufacturing, consulting, healthcare, biotechnology, automotive, oil and gas exploration, and mining. Related Articles Huawei chair says company’s record on security is clean Facing suspicion in a number of countries over its alleged ties to the Chinese government, Huawei is fighting back. “When... December 19th, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Experts debate value of China’s promise to Canada not to back industrial theft China's promise not to conduct or knowingly support cyber theft of Canadian corporate intellectual property for its companies is worthless,... June 27th, 2017 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Overall, the indictment says, APT10 stole hundreds of gigabytes of sensitive data and targeted the computers of 45 companies involved in aviation, space and satellite technology, manufacturing technology, pharmaceutical technology, oil and gas exploration and production technology, communications technology, computer processor technology, and maritime technology, as well as U.S. government agencies. The Globe and Mail carried an Associated Press story quoting a Chinese government official saying the country “has never participated in or supported anyone in stealing trade secrets in any way.” David Swan, the Alberta-based director of cyber intelligence for the Centre for Strategic Cyberspace + Security Science, said in an email the U.S. indictment should come as no surprise to cyber security analysts. “China announces its strategic objectives in its ‘Five Year Plans’. Chinese hacking generally follows that direction. “Despite agreements between China and the United States (under President Obama) and more recently between China and Canada (under Prime Minister Trudeau) there has been no change in the direction or substance of Chinese hacking. Chief Security Officers (CSO’s) and cyber security personnel face Chinese hacking on an ongoing basis. Chinese hacking has touched all aspects of Canadian life from academic to defence, from start-up innovators to corporations, from individuals to the National Research Council (NRC).” This is a reference to the 2014 hack of the NRC which Ottawa blamed on a Chinese threat actor. Related Articles National Research Council hacked, China blamed The national body responsible for business-led technology research has confirmed that its computer systems has suffered a cyber attack by what... July 30th, 2014 Nestor E. Arellano @NestorArellano What was surprising, Swan added, was the recognition during the U.S. announcement that China was unlikely to change its policies. “This is the first time I have heard an official source admit that.” The press release from CSE is interesting in that it is in stark contrast with the milder statements from Liberal politicians and senior bureaucrats, he added. David Senf, founder of the Toronto-based cyber security consultancy Cyverity said in an email that it’s clear that the intellectual property of Canadian firms and Canadian subsidiaries of multinationals is valuable to China and other nations. The concerns is less about stolen credit card information and more about company and state secrets in this case. “Organizations have to assume that they are a target, their cloud provider is a target and so are MSPs. But it’s still better to do something than nothing. It’s still better to get outside help than not to protect, detect and respond to attacks.” “If we assume the government reports are correct about one or more MSPs being compromised, it is still better for Canadian customers to rely on outside help than to go without. Continuous threat monitoring, for example, is an MSP service that is important for organizations to consider, as they likely don’t have the ability to maintain that kind of staff time and infrastructure themselves.” The indictment and support from other countries comes as China is pressured from a number of sides. The U.S. is putting a squeeze on Canada and other members of the Five Eyes intelligence co-operative to refuse to allow their carriers to install Chinese wireless equipment on their upcoming next-generation 5G networks. Australia and New Zealand have agreed; Canada and the U.K. are still thinking about it. At the sam time the U.S. and China are involved in a trade dispute. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Public Sector China, Government of Canada, security strategies Top 6 Smartphones for business 2018: Huawei Mate 20 Pro Hashtag Trending: AI in the enterprise, smarter chatbots, ethical AI goes global in 2019 About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada