https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cisco-hits-the-upgrade-button-again-on-its-collaboration-portfolio/423746
Cisco hits the upgrade button again on its collaboration portfolio | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Amy Chang, Cisco’s executive vice-president and general manager of collaboration, on stage during Cisco's partner summit in Las Vegas. Photo by Cisco. Infrastructure IT Workplace Cisco hits the upgrade button again on its collaboration portfolio Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: November 6th, 2019 LAS VEGAS — Cisco Systems announced a series of enhancements to its collaboration portfolio today, including three new products, several software upgrades and a new partnership with Microsoft. The news was presented by Cisco’s relatively new collaboration duo, Amy Chang and Sri Srinivasan, Chang, Cisco’s executive vice-president and general manager of collaboration, began Tuesday morning’s general session by highlighting the company’s double-digit growth across collaboration, noting that the feedback from last year’s partner summit didn’t fall on deaf ears. “We made you some promises…and you responded – behave as part of an ecosystem and make sure that every part of the system works with what customers already have in place,” said Chang, acknowledging Cisco’s confusing collaboration portfolio that, for years, featured disparate brands like Spark, which until last year, was powered by servers in public clouds, but wasn’t making use of the Webex backbone. But Cisco research suggests communication experiences in the workplace remain highly fragmented. On average, organizations use more than five conferencing services, according to a Cisco Broadsoft survey, and maintenance costs continue to sap the life out of their wallets. Sri Srinivasan, senior vice-president and general manager of Webex Meetings, Teams, Calling and Devices, explains how the unified app can be fully white-labeled by Cisco partners. Photo by Cisco. Cisco’s “Single Platform Advantage”, which was hinted at in June during Cisco Live, was touted once again on stage at Partner Summit. It’s essentially Cisco’s latest effort to make the vendor’s various collaboration products feel like they’re cut from the same cloth, while offering those tools in a modular fashion, allowing IT to configure the single app to align it with a group’s specific needs or workstyles. Srinivasan, senior vice-president and general manager of Webex Meetings, Teams, Calling and Devices, joined Chang on stage and explained how the unified app can be fully white-labeled by Cisco partners. “Your app, powered by Cisco Webex, for our customers,” he said. “Underneath the surface, this unified platform takes an API-first approach. Now, Cisco collaboration can be embedded directly into the business processes our users are living in.” Chang and Srinivasan also pointed out Cisco’s focus on cloud calling. The New Cisco Webex Edge for Calling solutions delivers a unified experience on top of existing Cisco and third-party products, meaning IT departments can unify disparate environments and take advantage of Webex cloud services to deliver global dial plans, least-cost routing and centralized services. The two also announced Cisco’s latest partnership with Microsoft that enables Cisco’s Webex video devices to connect to the Microsoft Teams meeting services and vice versa. New hardware “I have something incredible for everyone in this room,” an excited Srinivasan told audience members as he revealed the Webex Desk Pro. “It’s an instant office.” The 27-inch device features a 4K touchscreen with a USB-C connection, is web-app enabled, and works not only with Webex but with any conferencing service – including Microsoft. Among several other announcements about its collaboration portfolio, Cisco unveiled the Webex Desk Pro, a 27-inch device with a 4K touch display. Cisco is also combining calling, messaging, meeting, devices and contact centre into a single platform.#CiscoPS19 pic.twitter.com/2q5H3CW6tv — Alex Coop (@ItsJustAlexCoop) November 6, 2019 During a demonstration, a remote caller dialed in to say hello, while showing off some interesting features, including the ability to blur out the background or select a virtual one, a feature that is sure to come in handy when it comes to hiding the office clutter before a call. The Webex Desk Pro. File photo. The Webex Panorama The Headset 700 series Cisco also unveiled a new Bluetooth headset, as well as Webex Panorama, a device dedicated to large boardroom meetings. Availability for the hardware devices are as follows: Webex Desk Pro – general availability February 2020 Webex Panorama – general availability, first half of 2020 Headset 700 series – general availability, December 2019 Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, IT Workplace Cisco, postmedia, WebEx Rogers launches its first 5G smart campus in Canada at UBC Hashtag Trending - Facebook admits to another data leak, Netflilx’s war on password sharing, Google voice-assistant training About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada