https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-apple-watch-sales-soar-spotifys-love-for-podcasts-slack-as-distraction-machine/417730
Hashtag Trending – Apple Watch sales soar; Spotify's love for podcasts; Slack as distraction machine | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Emerging Tech Hashtag Trending – Apple Watch sales soar; Spotify’s love for podcasts; Slack as distraction machine Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: May 6th, 2019 Smart watch sales are soaring and Apple is on top. Spotify really wants you to listen to podcasts. And how software that promised us enhanced productivity can sometimes create more distraction. Trending on Google, the Apple Watch is defining the smart watch market. A report from CounterPoint Research shows smart watch sales are soaring, growing 48 per cent in the first quarter compared to last year. Apple is the clear market leader with 36 per cent share. Its smart watches grew in shipments by 49 per cent. Consumers really like the ECG ability, to track their heart rates. Samsung watches showed the most growth at 127 per cent, and hold 11 per cent of the market. Fitbit comes in third with 5.5 per cent market share. Since iPhone sales growth has been slowing lately for Apple, having its smart watches pick up some of that slack must come as a welcome signal for investors. Also Trending on Google, Spotify is experimenting with inserting podcasts into personalized playlists. A playlist called “Your Daily Drive” was noticed out in the wild by some Spotify users last week. It combines short podcasts with music, all tailored to user tastes. Spotify isn’t commenting on the experiment. Spotify has been growing its base of podcast content as a way to divert users away from music. Every time a Spotify user listens to a song, Spotify has to pay that musical artist. That’s not the case with podcasts. That’s why Spotify is making acquisitions in the podcast area, such as Gimlet and Anchor. https://www.linkedin.com/feed/news/the-next-big-distraction-at-work-4997050/ Trending on LinkedIn, is Slack ruining our work lives? Slack and other collaboration software was supposed to save us from our overburdened email inboxes. But instead, it’s just creating another source of distraction at work, argues Ranii Molla on Recode. The average employee at a big company that uses Slack is sending 200 messages per week. Power users can send 1,000 messages per day. Many of those messages are pointless – the meme of the moment, an animated GIF reaction, or photos of pets. Trying to keep up with the barrage can be a full time job in itself. And the worst part is, we still have email. So really we’ve added on to the business communications we conduct, instead of replacing an inefficient system. Careers, Emerging Tech Apple, hashtag trending, podcasts, Slack, Spotify Canada distant on 5G security guidelines issued from international meeting Could software quality assurance processes have prevented the Boeing 737 MAX crash? About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada