https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/university-of-waterloo-launches-healthtech-venture-fund/427867
University of Waterloo launches healthtech venture fund | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. The University of Waterloo said the success of their first venture fund directly led to the creation of this second fund. Credit: University of Waterloo Digital Transformation Education Public Sector University of Waterloo launches healthtech venture fund Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: February 28th, 2020 The University of Waterloo has announced that it’s launching a venture fund focussed on healthtech startups. Dubbed the Velocity HealthTech Fund, it will give early-stage startups the opportunity to compete in a pitch competition, with a chance to win $50,000 in pre-seed funding. The fund has already funded its first two startups, as it was also announced that Life Sciences Key Technologies received a total of $100,000 jointly from the Velocity Fund and the new healthtech fund, while Caribou received $50,000 from the new health tech fund. Related: Blackberry and University of Waterloo announce plans for a joint innovation lab After their first venture fund – simply titled the Velocity Fund, which was launched last April – managed to raise US$1.3 million while investing $600,000 into 12 startups, the executive director of Waterloo’s entrepreneurship program, Adrien Côté, said they saw that there was an appetite from investors in Canada. “Following the launch of the Velocity Fund last year, it quickly became apparent that there is a significant appetite among individual investors in Canada to get in on early-stage startups,” said Côté. “Focusing our second fund on health tech only made sense given that 38 per cent of the companies we have in our incubator operate in this space, a trend we only see increasing over time. Access to additional early capital allows founders to tackle unique, and often costly, aspects of building a health tech company.” The new fund was launched to investors four weeks ago and has already met its initial fundraising goals, garnering US$1 million in investments. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Education, Public Sector HealthTech, University of Waterloo, venture fund Ericsson announces partnership with Carleton University to research 5G tech Coronavirus 'decimated' device manufacturing in February, says IDC About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Blackberry and University of Waterloo announce plans for a joint innovation lab Largest ever Canadian venture deal worth $515 million secured by Newfoundland software company Microsoft announces AI for Good funding for University of Waterloo University of Waterloo opens new research center with NRC Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada