https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-amazon-engineer-dunks-on-ring-apple-and-broadcom-in-hot-water-avast-fallout/426763
Hashtag Trending - Amazon engineer dunks on Ring, Apple and Broadcom in hot water, Avast fallout | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Amazon engineer dunks on Ring, Apple and Broadcom in hot water, Avast fallout Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: February 3rd, 2020 An Amazon engineer criticizes home-security camera company Ring, saying it should be “shut down immediately”, Apple and its wifi chip company Broadcom have been ordered to pay $1.1B, and Avast shuts down its data-harvesting arm. An Amazon software engineer named Max Eliaser says the home-security company Ring should be “shut down immediately.” His comments are part of a post on Medium in which hundreds of Amazon employees shared their views on various company policies and products. The Ring, is of course, Amazon-owned, and Eliaser says that “the deployment of connected home security cameras that allow footage to be queried centrally are simply not compatible with a free society.” According to Business Insider, Amazon and Ring did not immediately respond to requests for comment. The story has caught fire on Reddit, whereas of this recording, has received more than 25,000 upvotes. Apple and the wifi chip company it uses for iPhones have been ordered to pay $1.1 billion to a university for infringing patents. A jury handed down the verdict in favour of the California Institute of Technology (Caltech), which claims the Broadcom wifi chips used in millions of Apple iPhones infringed four of its data transmission patents. A Sky News story that’s picking up serious momentum on Reddit says that, according to court filings, Apple said it believed all the university’s claims against it came from the use of Broadcom’s chips in its devices. Apple called itself “merely an indirect downstream party”. Broadcom, according to the story, did not comment further. And lastly, shortly after Avast’s popular antivirus software was revealed to be harvesting browsing data and selling it to advertisers, the company has said that it’s shutting down the subsidiary that made the process possible. In a blog post last week, the company’s CEO wrote that Avast is terminating its Jumpshot subsidiary’s data collection and operations “with immediate effect,” but doesn’t mention any plans to transfer the company’s “hundreds” of affected employees. The reports, which were the result of a joint investigation between Motherboard and PCMag, detailed how Avast was collecting user browsing data via its antivirus software. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Canada's privacy commissioner asks for input to address AI privacy concerns Cyber Security Today - Beware of coronavirus email scams, Instagram password worries, threats to Ashley Madison users and more About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada