https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ibm-to-open-quantum-computation-center-in-new-york/417377
IBM to open quantum computation center in New York | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Emerging Tech Software IBM to open quantum computation center in New York Tom Li @itworldca Published: April 29th, 2019 IBM Corp. is looking to accelerate quantum computing research with the opening of its Poughkeepsie, New York quantum computation center. The new computation centre will provide researchers with advanced cloud-based quantum computing systems, which IBM will be using to work extensively with members of its IBM Q Network — a community of over 50 partners and research institutions — to advance quantum computing towards commercial applications. IBM Q System One was revealed at CES 2019. ITWC had a chance to speak with Scott Crowder, chief technology officer for IBM Q systems, to talk about the future for quantum computers. Want to learn more about quantum computing? Register for IDC Directions 2019 today What is a Quantum computer? Quantum computers operate differently from traditional computers. Fundamentally speaking, it doesn’t operate on binary logic — that is, ones and zeroes — but instead through using Qubits, which can be in both states at once due to quantum superposition. This unique property allows it to be all combinations of ones and zeroes all at the same time, allowing for new approaches to solving complex mathematical problems. Because it radically diverges from traditional computing design, improving performance requires new thinking, too. Whereas today’s computer performance still scale linearly according to Moore’s Law, IBM’s quantum computer’s performance increases exponentially. This is closely entwined with its operation: as opposed to finding the fastest way to process certain tasks, quantum computing is all about exploring all the possible permutations to find answers to a problem a classical computer could never solve alone. Without prior knowledge, it can be difficult to guess the IBM quantum computer’s utility based on its appearance. Suspended in a cylinder isolated in a dual-layer glass chamber designed to minimize radio interference, vibration, and help maintain optimal working temperatures, the computer operates at near absolute zero. Even in its early state, Crowder says its meticulous upkeep requirements draws no more power than a standard server rack. Where will it be useful? The paramount focus of the new research centre is to research and develop quantum computing. IBM says over 180 research papers have been published based on the findings of over 10 million experiments ran on its public systems. Crowder says that quantum computers will be useful in scientific modelling. A use case could be simulation chemistry to test different chemical compounds such as battery catalysts, photoresistors, and petroleum chemical reactions. Quantum computing can also benefit the financial sector by improving risk and portfolio analysis. Inside an IBM quantum computer Quantum computing’s immense potential is continually attracting industrial interest worldwide. A few notable members of the IBM Q Network include JP Morgan Chase, ExxonMobil, Mitsubishi chemical labs, CERN, and Samsung. A number of universities, including the University of Waterloo, University of Notre Dame, Virginia Tech, and the University of Tokyo has joined the IBM Q Network on April 25. When will it be widely commercialized? Although it has taken great developmental strides, quantum computers still need some time before they can be deployed for mass commercial use. Also, it’s unlikely that it will be turned into personal devices. Crowder explained that its operating requirement in which it wouldn’t entangle with the rest of the universe is simply too stringent to be confined into a small form factor. The Poughkeepsie computation center will open sometime in the second half of this year. IBM Q ambassador Mehdi Bozzo-Rey will be presenting at IDC Directions 2019 on May 2 in Toronto to speak more about IBM’s quantum computing progress. ITWC is a partner in the event. Cloud, Emerging Tech, Software cloud, IBM, postmedia, quantum computer, research SAS Global Forum: Jim Goodnight emphasizes importance of harnessing data to change the world ITAC appoints experienced executive Angela Mondou as permanent president and CEO About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada