https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/eset-hunts-down-the-developer-and-operator-of-android-adware-affecting-8-million-users/423253
ESET hunts down the developer and operator of Android adware affecting 8 million users | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image from Shutterstock.com Privacy & Security ESET hunts down the developer and operator of Android adware affecting 8 million users Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: October 24th, 2019 With over 2.8 million available apps in Google’s Play Store, malicious actors can occasionally slip through Google’s stringent verification system. ESET researchers have detected 42 Android apps in the Google Play store using several tricks to stay hidden. ESET says 21 of them were active at the time of the discovery. This money-making adware campaign has been reportedly running for about a year now, with the involved Android apps installed eight million times from Google Play alone. These apps have been identified as belonging to the Android/AdDisplay.Ashas family. They can steal key data about the affected device, Lukas Stefanko, a malware researcher working with ESET, wrote in a blog post today. Apps of the Android/AdDisplay.Ashas family reported to Google by ESET. Image from ESET. The malicious apps were removed by the Google security team after being reported. However, certain third-party app stores still house these apps. The tricks that the attacker uses for stealth, resilience and displaying ads include mimicking Google and Facebook apps to avoid suspicion, and deleting their shortcut icon for longer resilience and making them more difficult to remove. ESET researchers also found that the developer had appended many of the package names with “com.google”, which can sometimes bypass simple name-checking algorithms and certain sandboxes. Is adware harmful? The answer is yes The users of apps containing adware usually do not understand the real nature of these malicious apps. This is the reason why it is important not to trust these apps or their developers. They look absolutely normal but act maliciously by: Gathering personal information and device information of the user Scamming users with intrusive ads Wasting the battery resources of the users’ devices Generating increased network traffic About the attacker ESET tracked down the operator of this campaign and developer of the adware using open-source information. A student at an Vietnamese university, he has also been identified as the owner of the C&C server. In addition, he also has some apps in Apple’s app store. Some of them are iOS versions of the apps that have been removed from Google Play, however none contain adware functionality, wrote Stefanko. ESET researchers also discovered that the attacker’s Youtube channel propagates the Ashas adware and his other projects. As for the Ashas family, one of the associated promotional videos, “Head Soccer World Champion 2018 – Android, iOS” was viewed almost three million times and two others reached hundreds of thousands of views, the blog reported. The researchers were also able to extract the malicious developer’s Facebook profile. Linked on his profile, researchers found a Facebook page – Minigameshouse, and an associated domain – minigameshouse[.]net. Through this, he promotes a large number of games beyond the Ashas family for download on both Google Play and the App store. Some of them did not contain any adware functionality, however Google has still removed all of them from Google Play. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Android, cybersecurity, ESET, Google, Google Play Store Azure shows no sign of slowing down, according to Microsoft's Q1 2020 earnings call Hashtag Trending - New Huawei foldable phone; Google’s new Montreal game studio; Google bricks Google home speakers About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone Google bolsters G Suite Hangouts with enterprise features amidst coronavirus outbreak Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada