https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-google-cloud-next-google-partners-with-us-tech-giants-for-data-transfer-project-googles-plans-for-a-trans-atlantic-cable/407365
Hashtag Trending – Google Cloud Next, Google partners with US tech giants for data transfer project, Google's plans for a trans-Atlantic cable | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Google Cloud Next, Google partners with US tech giants for data transfer project, Google’s plans for a trans-Atlantic cable Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Published: July 23rd, 2018 Google’s big cloud event is this week, Google is teaming up with U.S. tech giants for a data transfer project, and Google plans on building a trans-Atlantic cable from the U.S. to France. First up from LinkedIn is Google Cloud Next 2018, the tech giant’s annual conference in San Francisco which is being held from July 24th to 26th. It features appearances from Google Cloud executives and other keynote speakers, and as the name suggest, the event focuses on cloud computing. There will be workshops on how cloud is transforming businesses, fireside chats between executives and industry leaders, plus some fun and games. Stay tuned for our recap next week about what big news dropped at the conference. And next from Twitter is news that Google, Facebook, Microsoft, and Twitter are joining forces for an initiative called the Data Transfer Project. This is supposed to design a new way to move data between the platforms without needing to download and re-upload it. The current system supports data transfer for photos, mail, contacts, calendars, and tasks, and draws on publicly available APIs to do so. The four companies are hoping to grow this project into a more robust and flexible alternative to conventional APIs and are encouraging more companies to join them. You can find the existing code for the project on open-source website GitHub. And last but not least from Reddit, is news that Google is planning on building a massive subsea cable to connect its data centre in the US with one in France. The private trans-Atlantic cable should be up and running by 2020 according to the company, and is meant to strengthen, expand, and speed up its data centre infrastructure. Called Dunant, it will traverse 4,000 miles of ocean to connect Google’s North Virginia region directly to its region in France and Belgium. The company is working with TE SubCom to design, manufacture and lay the cable. Careers Google, hashtag trending, podcasts, postmediaold Turning big data into actionable insights Canadians using Bitcoin for investment purposes, Bank of Canada says About Mandy Kovacs Mandy is a lineup editor at CTV News. A former staffer at IT World Canada, she's now contributing as a part-time podcast host on Hashtag Trending. She is a Carleton University journalism graduate with extensive experience in the B2B market. When not writing about tech, you can find her active on Twitter following political news and sports, and preparing for her future as a cat lady. Follow Follow @MandyVKovacs on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada