https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ibm-announces-new-z15-mainframe-for-the-enterprise/421738
IBM announces new z15 mainframe for the enterprise | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Infrastructure IBM announces new z15 mainframe for the enterprise Tom Li @itworldca Published: September 12th, 2019 IBM today announced its z15 mainframe geared towards hybrid cloud and cloud-native workloads. The IBM z15 can be used in cloud-native app development and any workload that demands low latency. Featuring 12 per cent more cores and 25 per cent more memory than the IBM z14, a single z15 unit can process up to one trillion web transactions per day, or scale-out to 2.4 million Linux containers, according to IBM. Security was one of IBM’s foremost concerns when it came to the z15’s development. IBM says that 60 per cent of businesses reported they suffered a data breach caused by a vendor or third party in 2018. To address this problem, IBM spent four years to integrate over 3,000 patents into the z15 to strengthen its security. It includes pervasive encryption, Trusted Data Objects to manage fragmented data, enterprise-wide data privacy policies, end-to-end data consumption tracking, and better data migration key management. IBM says that these security and privacy features are key in convincing businesses to move their mission-critical operations to the cloud. After finalizing finalized its Red Hat acquisition in October 2018 for $34 billion, IBM has been deploying its features across Red Hat services. In the Z15’s case, it integrates Red Hat’s OpenShift container application platform. Built on Kubernetes, an open-source container system, Red Hat’s OpenShift enterprise container system offers developers full-stack security and provides virtualization tools for unified cloud and on-premises operations. The IBM z15 is available for purchase today. Pricing is determined according to business needs and financing options are available. Cloud, Infrastructure cloud computing, hybrid cloud, IBM, IBM mainframe, Linux, Red Hat Social media should co-operate on overseeing political advertising, expert tells Canadians New apps for business mobile banking are gaining momentum About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Minimize business impact of coronavirus Configuration mistakes blamed for bulk of stolen records last year: IBM Ginni Rometty out as IBM CEO, Arvind Krishna steps in IBM Food Trust ensures savory olive oil and better coffee Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada