https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/td-bank-acquires-enterprise-ai-firm-layer-6/400527
TD Bank acquires enterprise AI firm Layer 6 | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Big Data & Analytics TD Bank acquires enterprise AI firm Layer 6 Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: January 9th, 2018 TD Bank Group’s digital transformation strategy has led to the acquisition of Toronto-based artificial intelligence (AI) firm Layer 6. In a Tuesday statement Michael Rhodes, TD’s head of innovation, technology, and shared services, said Layer 6 will add personalized and real-time advice to the bank’s existing AI capabilities. Layer 6 was launched in Toronto in late 2016. Its signature platform provides enterprises in sectors such as the e-commerce and financial industries with improved deep learning and personalization capabilities. It also helped found the Toronto-based incubator Vector Institute, which is trying to commercialize AI research, and has received funding from the Royal Bank of Canada and Google. TD announced last October that it was working with New York-based Stanford Research Institute spinoff Kasisto to build an AI platform that will power its mobile chatbots and, in time, its smart assistants. The bank also recently collaborated Vector to develop new AI technologies, in addition to voice banking skills on Alexa with Amazon. The bank’s efforts fit into a larger industry trend of adopting AI technologies to deliver an improved customer experience, as noted in a recent report by Forbes Insights. While only a fraction of companies are currently using AI technology (37 per cent) the report predicts that next year, the percentage of companies with proposed concepts or projects involving AI will reach 72 per cent in North America. Only 14 per cent of companies described themselves as leading-edge when it comes to harnessing AI to improve customer service. Artificial Intelligence, Big Data & Analytics TD Bank, Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence Patching for Meltdown/Spectre: Make sure your AV supplier has the key TCL's BlackBerry KeyOne Bronze Edition is more than a change in colour About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content TD launches self-serve block features for credit cards New head of LG AI lab wants your home appliances to get smarter Collision 2019: TD calls for banks to collaborate more with fintech startups on AI solutions TD Bank chooses Microsoft Azure, says hyperscalers have ‘upped their game’ Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada