https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hong-kong-delegates-make-strong-pitch-to-businesses-at-collision-describe-greener-pastures-for-startups/418521
Hong Kong delegates make strong pitch to businesses at Collision, point to greener pastures overseas | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Public Sector Hong Kong delegates make strong pitch to businesses at Collision, point to greener pastures overseas Tom Li @itworldca Published: May 29th, 2019 Nestled within the sprawling Hong Kong metropolis is the Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks Corp. (HKSTP); almost a city unto itself devoted to the development and advancement of technological innovation. The complex, which includes over 3.5 million square-feet of lab and office space, houses over 700 businesses and has helped raise over $3 billion CAD of investments in the last fiscal year. HKSTP recently sent a delegation to the Collision Conference in Toronto with the purpose of recruiting tech businesses to apply for its Checkerboard Landing Program (a one-week training course to introduce companies to doing business in Asia, specifically in Hong Kong) as well as to promote the startup ecosystem in Hong Kong. The Hong Kong Science and Technology Park complex. Credit: HKSTP Francis Pun, the international development lead for HKSTP spoke with IT World Canada at Collision about what businesses could expect from the program as well as the business ecosystem in Hong Kong as a whole. “What you get in that program is an ability to find out what it takes to come to Hong Kong. To leverage our ecosystem, but not just for the Hong Kong market, but for what we call the Greater Bay Area market, and also for the Asian market,” explained Pun. “We’re creating an ecosystem for Asia. We have an opportunity to leverage the southern China ecosystem with what Hong Kong can bring up internationally and into the world. So we’re really building it out Asia-wide, but using Hong Kong as that lightning rod.” Francis Pun, international development lead for HKSTP, pictured with Andre Bertram, CEO of Helpwear Tech, a company that benefited from HKSTP’s programs for startups. Pun said Canadian companies that are worth an investment through HKSTP’s partnership with Saltagen Ventures – an early stage VC – are valued targets. The strategy is to convince those companies to flee for greener pastures if they’re not feeling supported by their own governments, and instead develop their business in Asia. Navdeep Bains, Canada’s minister of innovation, science, and economic development, has been a big part of recent investments into the innovation space and said he’s disappointed to see some of the cuts made by the provincial government which could undermine the progress that has been made in the booming tech scene in Toronto. Earlier this month, the Ontario government announced it was slashing Communitech funding by $2.1 million. That’s roughly a third of the funding the province gave Communitech each year and about 10 per cent of its overall budget. Fifteen of the Communitech’s 105 employees were laid off as a result. “This really will undermine growth and jobs. It’s wrongheaded. Very disappointed to see such cuts taking place, particularly in the areas of artificial intelligence. Canada is recognized globally for world-class research. And that was because of the investments we made in organizations… to develop cutting edge research that leads to economic development opportunities and commercialization opportunities that will create jobs and growth,” said Bains in an interview with IT World Canada. “To make cuts in that area is really a step in the wrong direction. It is a step backwards.” Canada’s small business minister Mary Ng said she’s not afraid of businesses moving away for greener pastures, stating that she thinks Canada’s diverse and educated workforce will keep Canadian companies here. “I think that what we need to do is we need to work with the world. Companies that start in Canada want to remain in Canada. Why do they want to remain in Canada? Because we are known for our diversity. We are known for our highly educated workforce. We’re known for being innovative and entrepreneurial,” she explained. Additionally, Ng said that HKSTP is not something to fear, but instead should be viewed as a positive. HKSTP is recognizing the strengths of Canada’s economy, and Ng suggested that could actually lead to opportunities for collaboration. “For Hong Kong Technology Park, I think that if there’s a collaboration, I think the collaboration is that they see the strength of Canadian companies and they are looking for that collaboration because of the strength that we have here,” said Ng. Pun indicated that type of government support for businesses can be found in Hong Kong. Combined with the infrastructure that HKSTP has built with government funding, Pun said the Hong Kong Science Park has made Hong Kong an attractive landing spot. “I think that’s where Hong Kong’s traditional mature business marketplace really makes sense. We have the legal infrastructure. We have the financial infrastructure…and the very freest economy in the world.” Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Public Sector government, startups Consumer mobility is 5G's first big use case, says Nokia You can teach a very old dog new tricks, says LCBO CIO About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Canadian ICT spending could shrink by 5 per cent in 2020: IDC Federal court extends CRTC wholesale pricing suspension Diversity more than just meeting numbers, everyone needs to ‘go all in’ says #movethedial founder Hashtag Trending – Facebook’s new business venture, IT safeguards from Elections Canada, Uber’s new safety system Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada