https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/soti-announces-new-one-platform-expansion-to-ireland/409770
SOTI announces new ONE platform, expansion to Ireland | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure SOTI announces new ONE platform, expansion to Ireland Lynn Greiner @lynngr Published: October 5th, 2018 Dublin, Ireland – At its fourth annual user conference here this week, Mississauga, Ont.-based mobility management vendor SOTI announced the imminent release of its new platform, SOTI One (branded as ONE). As of Nov. 1, SOTI One, which has been in beta testing for the past year, will be generally available. “The SOTI ONE Platform is our answer to keeping up with the pace of change,” said SOTI CEO Carl Rodrigues. “Our goal is to make it ridiculously simple. We’re looking at a certain class of problem that no-one else thought of.” Initially SOTI One will consist of version 14.2 of SOTI’s flagship device monitoring and management product, MobiControl, plus SOTI Assist, its new help desk product optimized for mobile devices, SOTI Snap, a rapid app development tool that easily links to backend data, and an online support community for customers and partners known as SOTI Central. Future releases will add two more components: SOTI Insight, a business intelligence tool, and SOTI Connect, designed to monitor and manage IoT devices. At first, SOTI will concentrate on providing a single pane of glass from which to manage printers in Connect, especially the specialized ones that usually live in difficult environments and have minimal user interfaces (think label printers, for example, or those used to print orders in restaurants), but plans to widen the scope to include anything from connected light bulbs up. Through the use of protocol connectors, plus a simple XML file describing possible interactions, virtually any device will be able to be accommodated. The new version of MobiControl will add iOS screen sharing, so support technicians can view a user’s screen to help troubleshoot problems (this feature, along with remote control of the device, is already available to Android users; Apple does not allow remote control), Microsoft HoloLens support, major enhancements to Mac management, and integration with Samsung Knox for Android Enterprise managed devices. Roy French, CIO at St. Elizabeth Health Centre has been a MobiControl customer for four years. He uses it to provision, monitor, and control the devices, mainly Samsung phones and tablets, used by almost 9,000 frontline staff involved in home healthcare. He’s curious about several components of SOTI ONE, specifically Snap, and the upcoming SOTI Insight. He already pulls data out of MobiControl for analysis and sees Insight as a less onerous way to perform the same task. He said he may also look at Assist, noting that since anything that takes away from patient care is a detriment, he will investigate anything he can do to make frontline staff’s lives better. Initially both SOTI ONE and standalone MobiControl will be available, though the plan is to eventually just sell the whole stack as a bundle. Analyst David Krebs, executive vice-president of Natick, Mass.-based VDC Research is cautiously optimistic about the new platform. He sees its value, but is doubtful that most companies will take advantage of all of the functionality. “There’s a lot in the suite,” he said. “It will be a challenge for SOTI; they will have to be careful that the core value doesn’t get lost in translation. They have to do a sharper job at conveying the complete turnkey message of SOTI ONE.” SOTI opens business in Ireland During the conference, SOTI also announced that it is opening its 10th global office, a development shop, in Galway, Ireland, providing 50 jobs to begin with, and growing to 150 in three years. Its total investment will be 20 million euros (almost $30 million CAD). The firm now has 10 global offices and its workforce will exceed 1,000 employees by the end of 2018. SOTI has experienced 93 consecutive quarters of profitability, w/more than 17,000 enterprise customers. The opening of the Galway office represents a significant milestone for SOTI, which now has 10 global offices & a workforce that will exceed 1,000 employees by the end of 2018 pic.twitter.com/KevpDBkBdn — SOTI Inc. (@SOTI_Inc) October 2, 2018 Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure carl rodrigues, help desk, mobile device management, SOTI Making the most of the Next Mobile Economy BlackBerry lends secure hardware assurance to Swiss phone maker Punkt About Lynn Greiner Lynn Greiner has been interpreting tech for businesses for over 20 years and has worked in the industry as well as writing about it, giving her a unique perspective into the issues companies face. She has both IT credentials and a business degree. Follow Follow @lynngr on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content SOTI updates platform, announces roadmap at user conference Canadian CEOs say it’s positive, not surprising, Toronto may not be next Amazon HQ2 location 2 Truths + 1 Lie with SOTI’s Carl Rodrigues August Community Slideshow: What’s on your summer reading list and why? Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada