https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-oct-31-americans-stressed-for-mid-terms-bing-search-gone-wrong-perils-of-porn/411113
Cyber Security Today: Oct. 31 – Americans stressed for mid-terms; Bing search gone wrong; perils of porn | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today: Oct. 31 – Americans stressed for mid-terms; Bing search gone wrong; perils of porn Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: October 31st, 2018 Americans are worried about threats to next week’s mid-term elections; searching for Chrome using Bing leads to unexpected results, and why using a company computer to visit adult websites can lead to a very embarrassing audit. There’s a lot to be afraid of on Halloween. David Bowie once sang that he was “afraid of Americans.” Well, what are Americans afraid of? Unfair elections, according to a survey conducted by cyber security firm ExpressVPN. At least when it comes to the mid-term elections coming up November 6th. Just six per cent of Americans say they trust social media more than news media and electoral candidates. It seems like recent crises around fake news and Russian propaganda campaigns have soured people on Facebook in particular. 76 per cent of Americans say they trust the New York Times more than Facebook. Also, 63 per cent say they’re concerned about the security of voting systems. If you’re looking for a Halloween thrill, try searching for Chrome on Microsoft’s Bing search engine. It might be the world’s most popular browser, says cyber security researcher Graham Cluley, but somehow searching for it can still lead to a bogus website. One one Twitter user searched “download Chrome” he found a promoted link to a scam website. It’s designed to trick people into downloading malicious code. It just goes to show you that you can’t always trust paid-for links to be what they appear. Microsoft did respond to this scam by removing the ad and banning the account. For our final tale of terror for today, an investigation by the U.S. Geological Survey into a malware infection traced the problem back to an employee’s penchant for visiting porn websites. A report details how the employee his a government-provided computer to somehow visit 9,000 different adult video sites. The employee also broke security protocols by using an unauthorized USB drive to save the videos, and his Android smartphone. The cell phone was also infected with malware. Lesson learned – don’t just depend on policies to enforce cyber security. Use technological means to ban blacklisted websites and prevent untrusted devices from being connected to company computers. Otherwise, you might have a future audit end in equally terrifying results. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts 20 years into the movement, more than half of developers involved in open source Huawei Mate 20 Pro review: the best Android option in Canada About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada