https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cortana-spartan-and-other-windows-10-features/101196
Cortana, Spartan and other Windows 10 features | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Mobility Software Wireless & IoT Cortana, Spartan and other Windows 10 features Dave Yin @@yindavid Published: January 22nd, 2015 Major announcements came out of Microsoft’s Redmond, Washington headquarters today. The company unveiled both software and hardware that are aimed to usher in its next Windows milestone. Here are the major Windows 10 software announcements. Windows 10 is free Yep, that’s right. While there is a precedent – Microsoft offered Windows 7 free to a select portion of its customer base, some of whom no doubt felt victimized by Windows Vista – few, perhaps, could have predicted that the highly anticipated next iteration of Windows would be made free, and to so many users. Considering Microsoft ended support for XP in April last year, the announcement that Windows 10 would be a free upgrade (in the first year following release) to users running Windows 7 and up should touch a majority of its install base. Microsoft didn’t outline any limitations on the upgrade however, how the the update would be rolled out, or even if it was optional. Some curious statements hinted at what may be a subscription model coming for Windows, with Microsoft execs pitching 10 as a “service” akin to the Internet. We will be watching closely as more details emerge. Cortana Microsoft wants to make computing personal again. Key to its strategy will be Cortana, which the company demoed for the first time on a PC. However, its function has been significantly ramped up running on Windows 10, and has been integrated into nearly every facet of the platform. On a basic level, Cortana has Google Now’s card functionality, with a persistent home in the task bar that can be brought up to show basic information such as weather, appointments, news headlines and flights. At the next level, one can command her to do a variety of tasks, including dictating an email, playing music, and imitate Yoda. Joe Belfiore, corporate vice president of Microsoft’s operating systems group showed off her integration by demonstrating her ability to simultaneously search local files, the Windows App Store, and files stored in the cloud, namely OneDrive and OneDrive for business. At the highest level of personalization, Cortana is able to learn about the user, including, apparently, their dietary restrictions. Belfiore demonstrated how Cortana looked up a restaurant based on a Facebook event and was able to read the website to pull up its menu as well as fluidly search for ingredients of questionable dishes. Of all the personal assistants, Cortana also sounded the most natural, by far. If this is all too 1984-esque, Microsoft assured the audience that one can easily bring up a list of what Cortana knows about the user, and delete items at will. These features will be coming to Windows Insiders within the next three to five months. Seamless transitions Another major focus for Microsoft was the goal of making transitioning between devices easy, be it a laptop, a 2-in-1, tablet, phablet, Xbox One or mobile device. Windows 10 will run on everything, and it will all feel the same. First, the company showed off the start menu, which can now be resized to make for an easier transition from Windows 7 or 8. Microsoft is also taking a leaf out of the mobile design book, integrating toggles and notifications in a new action centre. On the flipside, Windows Phones will not only take advantage of Cortana’s upgrades, but will also see Skype functionality been built into messaging and phone call apps, as well as newly designed touch-centric Microsoft Office offerings. The company said that its “Windows Universal Apps” such as its gallery and calendar apps will have the same underlying code across devices but different layout. Through what was called “Continuum”, devices like Surface will even be able to transition automatically between tablet and PC modes. Last, but certainly not least, Microsoft even demoed Xbox One integration. Through an Xbox app on Windows 10 PCs, a user is able to see and instantly join a friend’s Xbox One game. What’s more, gamers can finally stream Xbox One games to Windows 10 devices. Microsoft also announced the Surface Hub, a smart TV with Windows 10 integration, designed for office use. It is a 55″ or 84″ 4K display with integrated compute with custom versions of Skype for Business and OneNote, built in cameras, sensors and mics, and a multi-touch and multi-pen screen. It allows for digital white boarding, remote conferencing, and the ability for multiple people to share and edit content on the screen from any device through wireless or wired connections. No word yet on the pricing. Spartan While no official name was unveiled for Windows’ shiny new browser, the demonstration of codename Project Spartan certainly piqued our interest. The browser was running fast and fluid in the demonstration, and had three tricks up its sleeve. First, as heavily rumoured, the ability to mark up pages was shown. This feature is integrated with Microsoft’s OneNote, and sections of websites with links that are still live can either be saved or shared with others. Secondly, Microsoft introduced Reading Mode, something akin to Pocket’s offline read-later functionality found on mobile devices. It streamlines websites and online articles into a clean format and adds it to a list which can then be accessed offline and on the go. Lastly, it has the aforementioned integration with Cortana. While certainly welcome additions, we are curious to see whether these additions will make Microsoft’s browser offering finally a worthy competition again to the likes of Firefox and Google Chrome. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Mobility, Software, Wireless & IoT Microsoft Corp., operating system, windows 10 Up to 25 per cent of IT security products "could be better": Survey BlackBerry's John Chen wants net neutrality on content and app level Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Windows 7 is dead, but 25% of large businesses in Canada are still running it on desktops, says IDC survey Top 6 Android 10 features you must know about From Windows 7 to Windows 10: A migration guide Hashtag Trending – Data Privacy Day tips; Windows 10 hogs hard drive; Samsung ditches plastic packaging Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada