https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/march-networks-launches-hybrid-video-recording-platform/396279
March Networks launches hybrid video recording platform | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Managed Services & Outsourcing Privacy & Security Wireless & IoT March Networks launches hybrid video recording platform Gary Hilson @itworldca Published: September 6th, 2017 Ottawa-based intelligent IP video provider March Networks has unveiled a new hybrid video recording platform that supports high-definition (HD) analog video in addition to all-IP and standard analog video channels. The 8724 V Hybrid Network Video Recorder (NVR) is designed to help organizations take sharp HD video using existing analog infrastructure, while also eliminating the cost and disruption that usually comes with replacing coaxial cable with Ethernet. The new platform will be available in mid-September, with HD analog support following shortly after. March Networks’ new NVR platform works with its new cloud-based Searchlight for QSR service powered by 360iQ launched in July, which provides video and retail data analytics service for the quick service restaurant and fast casual markets. More broadly, the company’s hybrid video recording platform is aimed at helping retailers, financial institutions, school districts and other organizations to transition to an HD video platform at their own pace without huge capital expenses. The 8724 V Hybrid NVR uses analog power and Power over Ethernet (PoE) modules to support a variety of IP and HD analog video configurations, up to a maximum of 24 channels. This enables organizations to mix and match IP and analog cameras: They could deploy the 8724 V to capture HD video from eight HD analog and 16 IP cameras at one location, and eight IP and 8 HD analog cameras at another site. The 8724 V uses a customized embedded Linux OS that eliminates unnecessary background services and frequent system updates, and the recorder can be maintained with March Networks’ free GURU Smartphone App to enable instant configuration audits, troubleshooting, warranty checks and other capabilities using a smartphone or tablet. Careers, Managed Services & Outsourcing, Privacy & Security, Wireless & IoT HD video, IP video, March Networks, security, surveillance Intel targets binge watchers and VR enthusiasts in soft PC market Everyone wants to work for tech companies (and Disney), SurveyMonkey finds About Gary Hilson Gary Hilson is a Toronto-based freelance writer who has written thousands of words for print and pixel in publications across North America. His areas of interest and expertise include software, enterprise and networking technology, memory systems, green energy, sustainable transportation, and research and education. His articles have been published by EE Times, SolarEnergy.Net, Network Computing, InformationWeek, Computing Canada, Computer Dealer News, Toronto Business Times and the Ottawa Citizen, among others. Join Gary Hilson on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity Is my iPhone snooping on my conversations? How to stonewall the hackers trying to to get around your MFA Why pizza party security training doesn’t cut it anymore Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada