https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/mapping-the-route-to-digital-transformation/421859
Mapping the route to digital transformation | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Big Data & Analytics Digital Transformation Emerging Tech Mapping the route to digital transformation Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: September 18th, 2019 What if a picture really could be worth a thousand insights? Digital data is the foundation upon which organizations today base the bulk of their major decisions. More and more, the line between business success and business failure seems to be at the point where a company goes from merely having data to being able to organize it and make sense of it. Geographic information systems (GIS) are one of the biggest growth areas in data analytics. These systems analyze data and geography and present the results on a map to reveal deeper insights into an issue. By using geospatial information and mapping, organizations are finding new ways to use data, and to discover new relationships and patterns in everything from traffic flow to crime statistics. Webinar Registration “Mapping the Route to Digital Transformation” How organizations are using geospatial data Until recently, geospatial data was mainly used by intelligence agencies, the military, and maritime and aeronautical organizations. Today, however, geospatial information is being used in most markets and institutions around the world, including: Retail – Geospatial data provides retailers with data on local population income, housing and rent prices, surrounding business performance, population and age. It helps retailers understand why purchases happen where they do. Health care – Geospatial helps companies uncover patterns and contributing factors that provide a clearer understanding of what treatment priorities best “fit” a local population Insurance industry – When disasters strike, insurance companies are using geospatial data to identify and prioritize response efforts. Location technologies are becoming key drivers of digital transformation. These technologies are affecting how companies manage their assets, how they serve their customers, how they tackle and solve complex problems, and how they communicate and make critical decisions when time is of the essence. Picture it for yourself Esri Canada, the world’s leading GIS software distributor, provides enterprise GIS solutions that allow businesses, governments, and educational institutions to leverage the power of maps to make impactful decisions. On October 30th, join Esri Canada VP and General Manager John Kitchen, and Dell Canada Technical Educator Brad Evans for “Mapping the Route to Digital Transformation.” Along with a compelling story about the use of geospatial data in digital transformation, this one-hour webinar will feature discussions around such topics as: recognizing and responding to changes in your marketplace; driving innovation from within your organization; geospatial analytics and making data-driven decisions; and turning your ideas into reality with the right tools and technologies. Related Download Sponsor: IBM Digital Reinvention in action: What to do and how to make it happen Register Now Big Data & Analytics, Digital Transformation, Emerging Tech Data, digital transformation, Esri Canada, geographic, geospatial, GIS, location Poor configuration, old versions of Windows, Linux among security issues facing SMBs: Survey AppDirect announces a partnership with Google, among other announcements at AppDirect Engage About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content CIOs worry about people, capacity and security as COVID-19 crisis grows Azure NetApp files become HIPAA compliant Avoiding CIO failure in oil and gas Sponsored By: Avaya Evolve at the speed you choose with Avaya subscription Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada