https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/round-trip-car-sharing-firms-remain-confident-about-toronto-operations-after-car2go-exit/405654
Round-trip car sharing firms remain confident about Toronto operations after Car2Go exit | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Managed Services & Outsourcing Wireless & IoT Round-trip car sharing firms remain confident about Toronto operations after Car2Go exit Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: May 25th, 2018 Round-trip car sharing firms still expect sunny days ahead after Car2Go announced its suspending its service in Toronto starting June. “I think it was a bit of a shock for users here in Toronto,” Mark Latchford told ITWC, Toronto general manager for Maven, GM’s car-sharing service which launched for the first time internationally in Toronto February. “But it doesn’t really impact us at all.” Maven users find a car at a designated parking station – there are 29 stations scattered across the city – then return the car to the same spot when they’re finished. Car2Go said its service can no longer work in Toronto due to the city’s new pilot program that will forbid the use of nearly 10,000 parking spaces in the city, a problem for the free-floating car-share program that allows its users to undertake one-way trips. “This is not the result we were expecting and to say we are disappointed would be a huge understatement,” Car2Go CEO Paul DeLong said in a recent statement. Toronto city staff will review the pilot project and report back to council next month, not next year as originally planned, The Star reported. Related Article GM brings another car sharing service to Toronto Maven experimented with a free-floating model in the U.S., said Latchford, but it didn’t do well. If Maven continues to grow, Latchford was quick to suggest the company will stick with its current system, and not turn to a free-floating model. “People enjoy the fact that they can reserve a car a few weeks down the road and know exactly what type of vehicle is being offered and that it will be there,” he explained. In response to DeLong’s suggestion that the company faced extreme restrictions in Toronto not seen in other cities they operate in, Latchford said Maven hasn’t felt limited by city council, and has in fact been working closely with the the city to curb its congestion problems. With only 40 vehicles, Maven’s footprint in Toronto is relatively small, but they’re growing quickly, said Latchford. “The more options residents have to get around the city, the better,” he said. “We welcome any other car-sharing services in Toronto.” A report from the Canadian Automobile Association (CAA) found a portion of Hwy. 401 running through central Toronto, is the ninth-most-clogged artery in Canada and the United States. According to the TomTom Traffic Index, in 2016, the average extra travel time drivers experience daily due to congestion is 34 minutes per day. My statement on car2go’s announcement. pic.twitter.com/BmikUHqm6h — John Tory (@TorontosMayor) May 24, 2018 In a statement, Toronto Mayor John Tory said he is confident other car sharing companies will continue to work with the city. “While their [Car2Go] decision to suspend operations in Toronto is unfortunate, it is their decision alone to walk away from a clear path towards regulations that would allow them to operate in our city in a reasonable, compatible way,” he said. Zipcar, which has more than 600 cars in more than 300 locations in Toronto, runs on a round-trip model as well, and in a statement said they “prioritize our deep relationships with cities, including right here in Toronto,” adding Toronto is one of Zipcar’s largest and fastest growing markets. “We see Torontonians as smart, savvy, forward-thinking consumers who value shared access over ownership,” the statement read. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos Your ERP System Is Leaking How to Better Use a Time and Labour Data Collection System to Plug Holes Caused by Fraud and Waste. Read More Managed Services & Outsourcing, Wireless & IoT Car2go, Maven, ridesharing Cyber Security Today: BMW cars could be hacked, British university fined for a hack, and more Hashtag Trending - GDPR’s complications; Canada protects net neutrality; Trudeau to speak on Canadian infrastructure About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Ridesharing services could soon replace personal vehicles, according to Accenture study Lyft to offer discounted rides to get Toronto and Ottawa voters to polls this election Hashtag Trending – Slack, Google Home, and Chromecast go down; Uber expands to London Hashtag Trending – Tesla being sabotaged, Uber tests new cheaper fare feature, autoplay video ads coming to Facebook Messenger Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada