https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-show-youre-in-control-on-data-privacy-day/426472
Cyber Security Today – Show you're in control on Data Privacy Day | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – Show you’re in control on Data Privacy Day Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: January 27th, 2020 Show you’re in control on Data Privacy Day Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Monday January 27th. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanada.com. To hear the podcast click on the arrow below: Tomorrow is International Data Privacy Day. It’s a reminder to take stock of what you do to ensure your personal data is protected. That means making sure your computing devices — computers, laptops, tablets and smartphones, use the latest software. That your applications are regularly updated for security fixes. That you use anti-malware software for protection, and, if necessary, protect personal data with encryption. That you use a password manager to keep control of all your passwords so you don’t use the same password twice. That you make sure your smartphone doesn’t have location tracking enabled full-time. Be careful about anything personal you put on social media, including your birthday, and days when you’ll be away on vacation. Some people are proud but foolish enough post images of their drivers licences, company identification cards, passports and even airline boarding passes. These are all things thieves love to help impersonate you. And, of course, be careful about reading and acting on email and text messages. Infected attachments are one of the biggest ways criminals infect computing devices. So think before you click. Gregory Smolynec, Canada’s deputy privacy commissioner, told me it’s important that people know their privacy rights. That’s the same in whatever country, province or state you live in. In many jurisdictions you have the right to make companies tell what personal data has been collected on you, what it’s used for and who it’s shared with. As for businesses, in many countries they have obligations to protect customer privacy. The news is filled with stories about data breaches, raising a crisis of trust with the private sector, the deputy commissioner said. For businesses Data Privacy Day should be a day every firm shows the public how personal data they hold is protected. Privacy, the deputy commissioner told me, underpins all of our rights, including democratic rights. The bottom line is you have a lot of control over online privacy. It’s up to you to use it. You can find more about privacy at the site StaySafeOnline.org, and the Canadian Centre for Cyber Security. In other news, a 29-year-old Russian man pleaded guilty in a U.S. court to criminal charges relating to the operation of two websites, one of which sold stolen credit card numbers while the other was a forum where criminals could advertise stolen goods. He’ll be sentenced in May. More open databases of sensitive information have been found on the Internet. One belongs to a German-based international car rental agency called Buchbinder. Names and personal information like birth dates and addresses on over 3 million customers dating back to 2003 were found, as well as some employee passwords. The biggest threat to macOS users continues to be malware that dates back to 2018, says security vendor Kaspersky. This particular malware is often distributed to victims as infected updates to Flash players so they can watch TV shows, movies or sports events on suspicious web sites. Also beware of popup software update requests to watch YouTube videos. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Hashtag Trending - Big brother’s watch in UK; YouTube mods and PTSD; Sidewalk Lab’s smart city delay Ontario construction firm victim of ransomware attack About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada