https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/offering-better-user-experiences-through-data-analytics/403051
Offering better user experiences through data analytics | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Big Data & Analytics Emerging Tech Wireless & IoT Offering better user experiences through data analytics Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: March 21st, 2018 In an increasingly crowded marketplace, it can be brutally difficult to find a patch of clean, uncluttered ground on which to work up a competitive advantage. Some might say it has all been done before, that finding an edge is largely a matter of name recognition, with a sprig of luck thrown in. However, as many a data analyst would tell you, recent innovations in technology, specifically AI and analytics, have made the task of finding that elusive edge abundantly possible. Register for Webinar: How data analytics is reshaping the fan experience in Calgary Today’s successful enterprise knows there is a strong link between success and offering end users a great (and ever-evolving) experience. The numbers certainly don’t lie about what makes today’s end user tick: Over half of them say a bad mobile experience makes them less likely to engage with a company Mobile users are five times more likely to leave a non-mobile optimized site Six of ten feel more positive about a brand after consuming content from it Seven of ten learn about organizations through their blogs as opposed to their ads Many companies today see a path to true competitive through the creation of engaging and authentic customer experiences. Unfortunately, many organizations are at a loss as to how to go about building it (both the content and the overall experience). They know it must be done; they’re just not sure how to do it. For many who have successfully built — and daily improve — the experience(s) they offer end users, the answer lies in using advanced data analytics. Through this, they have found it is not only possible but actually not that difficult to give people what they want and have come to expect. For those who have yet to find their “CX groove,” however, the question looms ever large: “Where to begin?” Recently, stadium operators across North America were facing a problem. The once wildly engaged sports fans that had packed stadiums and arenas for a generation were beginning to stay home. Armed with new technology options, fans were satisfying their sports and entertainment hunger with on-demand viewing and swiping through social media from the comfort of their couch. To entice fans back to their venue, Calgary Sports and Entertainment Corporation turned to data analytics to get to know their audience better. With the help of Dell EMC, they introduced systems to measure everything from tickets sales to refreshment kiosk traffic and preferred game souvenirs. On April 18th, join IT World Canada (ITWC) CIO Jim Love with guests Ziad Mehio and Deniece Kennedy of Calgary Sports and Entertainment Corporation, and Dell EMC data analytics leader Erin K. Banks as they explore how analytics helped Calgary Sports and Entertainment Corporation score big with fans. Along with lessons that can be applied in other businesses, this session will also provide information about: Choosing the “right” data to analyze Understanding your audience Why you need to improve your customer experience Integrating “actionable” analytics into your business model Register now for “How data analytics is reshaping the fan experience in Calgary.” Related Download Sponsor: IBM Digital Reinvention in action: What to do and how to make it happen Register Now Big Data & Analytics, Emerging Tech, Wireless & IoT customer, CX, Data, Dell EMC, end-user Tech a minor component of Toronto's new 'smart neighbourhood,' Sidewalk Labs exec says IBM and Apple announce new partnership to create smarter mobile apps About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Azure NetApp files become HIPAA compliant Explore all the changes in Canadian financial services security in a single day Hashtag Trending – Facebook admits to another data leak, Netflilx’s war on password sharing, Google voice-assistant training Sponsored By: SAS Running the last mile in analytics Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada