https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-2020-job-trends-injured-amazon-workers-protesting-dont-lose-the-apple-cloth/425096
Hashtag Trending – 2020 job trends; injured Amazon workers protesting; don't lose the Apple cloth | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – 2020 job trends; injured Amazon workers protesting; don’t lose the Apple cloth Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: December 12th, 2019 The fastest growing jobs in Canada for 2020; injured Amazon workers are protesting the company; Apple warns users not to lose cleaning cloth The new year is almost upon us! And as we enter into 2020, many will want to know what job skills are in demand and what careers would be most fruitful to pursue. With that in mind, LinkedIn its Emerging Jobs Report for Canada, and it is trending. To likely nobody’s surprise, a few tech jobs ranked high on the list. Among those listed was artificial intelligence specialists, as well as specialists in the field of website reliability, data, and cybersecurity. Despite the leaning towards tech, the report did point out that LinkedIn by no means expects soft skill needs to die out though. Last week a report surfaced outlining the extreme rates that Amazon employees were being injured, with many citing the company’s ruthless quotas as a primary reason for this. And now it seems some of those injured workers are taking a stand, and it is trending on Reddit. Along with some former warehouse workers who sustained injuries on the job, the Chicago based organization Warehouse Workers for Justice, took to the streets to protest in front of the company’s brick and mortar locations. One of the organizers with Warehouse Workers for Justice, Roberto Clack, says that the rate of these injuries will only increase with the holiday rush. Some of the big news in the tech world yesterday was Apple unveiling its new Mac Pro with a whopping top price of $70,000 Canadian dollars, as well as a screen that will run you back another $7000. And now the internet is having a field day with Apple’s cleaning instructions for that screen, and it is trending on Google. The screen comes with an Apple-branded cleaning cloth and the company is warning users against using anything but that to clean their screen. At this point the company has not responded as to what consequences could occur when using another cloth or how much a replacement will cost. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Payments Canada report says nearly 75% of all payments are digital, and online transfers surge LG G8X ThinQ Dual Screen experience review: just try it About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada