https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-amazon-flooded-with-virus-fakes-musks-battery-farm-edge-concerns/428391
Hashtag Trending - Amazon flooded with virus fakes; Musk's battery farm; Edge concerns | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Amazon flooded with virus fakes; Musk’s battery farm; Edge concerns Staff @itworldca Published: March 12th, 2020 Amazon says it has removed millions of products from its platform because of price gouging and counterfeit claims related to the coronavirus, Musk’s battery farm gets a lot of attention on Reddit, and a new study says Microsoft Edge has more privacy-invading telemetry than other browsers The Wall Street Journal is reporting that more than 100 masks and respirators are still for sale on Amazon’s marketplace, despite Amazon’s latest efforts to remove the fake items off its digital shelves. The e-commerce giant often gets bombarded by third-party sellers offering fake products in response to major events with a wide-impact on the general public. As of this recording, the number of global coronavirus cases has exceeded 125,000 and the number of deaths is at more than 4,600. Elon Musk’s Battery Farm Is an Undeniable Success from r/technology Trending on Reddit is an article from Popular Mechanics about Elon Musk’s battery farm in Australia that’s helped the country save millions of dollars. The facility powers rural South Australia, and can power 30,000 homes for up to an hour, relieving the stress on the grid during potential failures on hot summer days. The story goes on to say how South Australians saved a ton of money, much more than the $50 million costs that Tesla passed on to its Australian investor. The battery farm reportedly reduced network costs by about US$76 million Microsoft Edge has more privacy-invading telemetry than other browsers from r/technology And lastly, a recent study has found that the Microsoft Edge browser is one of the least private ones out there. An Irish researcher tested six web browsers to determine how often they phoned home, and what data they were sharing. It turns out that all URLs typed into Edge are shared with multiple Microsoft sites, in addition to unique hardware identifiers, allowing for the possibility of history tracking. Some Redditors were surprised by the results, assuming Chrome would perform the worst when it came to privacy. Others were less surprised, as one Redditor noted “Microsoft has dipped to a new low.” That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Alex Coop, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Made-in-Vancouver product will rely on WiFi to detect weapons Canada can learn from U.S. cyber report, says expert Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada