https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-amazon-is-most-valuable-brand-ever-tech-giants-spending-heavy-on-lobbying-tesla-hits-milestone/426420
Hashtag Trending – Amazon is most valuable brand ever; tech giants spending heavy on lobbying; Tesla hits milestone | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Amazon is most valuable brand ever; tech giants spending heavy on lobbying; Tesla hits milestone Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: January 24th, 2020 Amazon officially becomes the most valuable brand of all time; tech giants set new record for money spent on lobbying; Tesla hits major milestone When many of us think about Amazon, we likely think of a tech giant that has grown to be the world’s biggest company. But now, it is official that the company is actually the most valuable brand of all time, and it is trending on Reddit. The report from the Brand Finance Global 500 Index outlined that Amazon soared past the $200 billion mark – becoming the first brand to do so. This came on the heels of 17.5% value growth, bringing the brand to a total value of $220.8 billion. Sticking on the topic of the world’s biggest brands, an article from Market Watch shows just how much tech firms like Facebook, Amazon, and Apple are spending on lobbying lawmakers, and it is trending on Reddit. Not only were the amounts staggering, but actually record-breaking. Facebook led the pack at $16.7 million in 2019, with Amazon and Apple following them at $16.1 million and $7.4 million respectively. It is no surprise this all comes as lawmakers around the world have started setting their sights on Big Tech. And keeping right with big companies setting new benchmarks, Tesla set a record of its own, and it is trending on LinkedIn. Not too long ago, people thought the bubble might be bursting on the glitz and glamour style of tesla. But that seems to not be the case, as the company has become the first publicly listed U.S. automobile producer to top a $100 billion valuation. This comes on the heels of a surprising quarterly profit that aided in the company almost doubling its stock price in the last 3 months alone. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Phishing training needs both broad and targeted approach, says report Cyber Security Today - Ransomware threat increases, no one getting high on this data theft and who's the good guy taking down a botnet? About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada