https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/apple-updates-imacs-with-new-intel-processors-radeon-pro-vega-graphics/416137
Apple updates iMacs with new Intel processors, Radeon Pro Vega graphics | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Mobility Apple updates iMacs with new Intel processors, Radeon Pro Vega graphics Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: March 19th, 2019 iMacs are getting an upgrade, as Apple Inc. announced that both size variations of its iMac desktop line will now feature more powerful processors, as well as new Vega graphics options. The 21.5-inch iMac will be equipped with 8th-generation quad-core and 6-core processors, which Apple said in its press release will boost the performance by up to 60 per cent, and the 27-inch iMac will feature 9th-generation 6-core and 8-core processors, which is expected to boost performance by 240 per cent. Also being debuted for the first time in the iMac line of products is Radeon Pro Vega graphics; delivering up to 80 per cent faster graphics performance, according to Apple’s press release. The 21.5 inch iMac and 27 inch iMac will boast upgrades of 80 per cent and 50 per cent in graphics performance, respectively. Some other announcements included in the press release were the inclusion of 4K (21.5 inch iMac) and 5K (27 inch iMac) Retina displays – with up to 14.7 million pixels, 1 billion colours, 500 nits of brightness, and P3 wide colour gamut – and that macOS Mojave will be the default operating system. Both models are now available for purchase from apple.com, the Apple Store app, Apple Stores, and through authorized Apple resellers. The 21.5 inch iMac starts at $1,699 and the 27 inch iMac starts at $2,399. Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility Apple, iMac, Intel Hashtag Trending - Joyce Murray is Minister of Digital Government; ‘Delete Facebook’ says WhatsApp cofounder; automation will take more women’s jobs Federal budget 2019: Tech community welcomes Global Talent Stream commitment, SR&ED expansion About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Is my iPhone snooping on my conversations? Apple’s new MacBook Air and iPad Pro bring surprsing upgrades Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Only a select few are allowed to build apps related to COVID-19, says Apple Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada