https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/uber-officially-opens-its-new-engineering-hub-in-toronto/423669
Uber officially opens its new engineering hub in Toronto | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by Uber Careers Digital Transformation Emerging Tech Infrastructure Uber officially opens its new engineering hub in Toronto Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: November 5th, 2019 Uber Technologies officially opened its engineering hub in Toronto on Nov. 4. The hub is part of the company’s investment of more than CA$200 million in Toronto, along with its self-driving vehicle R&D facility – the Advanced Technologies Group (ATG) Research and Development Centre – which is conducting research in autonomous technology alongside some of the top universities of Canada, Andrew Macdonald, the senior vice-president for Uber’s operations globally, said on Twitter. In September 2018, Uber first announced its plans to open an engineering hub in early 2019 and expand the ATG centre in Toronto, investing more than CA$200 million over five years. The new engineering office is focused on designing, developing, operating and continuously updating the vast infrastructure and backend systems that power the products of the company. Uber has also said that the engineering hub will generate a significant number of jobs in the country. “With this, Uber will create hundreds of new tech and engineering jobs in Canada. When combined with its local ridesharing and food delivery businesses, Uber’s overall headcount in Toronto will exceed 500 employees in the coming years,” the company said last year. The engineering hub will comprise of five floors wherein the company eventually plans to have more than 400 staff members, who will be performing tasks involving software engineering, data science, analytics, logistics, operations, marketing, sales and more. Careers, Digital Transformation, Emerging Tech, Infrastructure Canadian jobs, engineering, IT careers, IT jobs, Uber Ryan Holmes exits as Hootsuite's CEO Hashtag Trending - WeWork layoffs hit Meetup; Uber profitable in 2021?; Spotify for kids About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Accenture announces $1.1 million grant to Acces Employment to develop AI bot for job seekers Ridesharing services could soon replace personal vehicles, according to Accenture study Software developers are in high demand, according to ITWC’s Salary Calculator data Canadian, U.S. man admit trying to blackmail Uber, LinkedIn after data thefts Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada