https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/microsoft-to-replace-mcsa-mcsd-and-mcse-with-role-based-certifications/427946
Microsoft to replace MCSA, MCSD, and MCSE with role-based certifications | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Education Microsoft to replace MCSA, MCSD, and MCSE with role-based certifications Tom Li @itworldca Published: March 2nd, 2020 Microsoft announced on Feb. 27 that its role-based certificates will replace existing Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MCSA), Microsoft Certified Solutions Developer (MCSD), and Microsoft Certified Solutions Expert (MCSE) certificates on June 30, 2020. The Microsoft Technology Associate (MTA) certifications will not be affected. Those who are currently working towards any of the retiring certs are now on a deadline to complete them before they’re gone. Microsoft says that the retiring certs will remain on the Microsoft transcript for two years after June 30, 2020. The exam restructuring also changes the way Microsoft partners obtain their competencies. Passing an exam before its retirement would still count towards the Microsoft partner competency requirement for 12 months. New exams and certification guides will be available in the Partner Center section in March 2020. Microsoft recommends IT professionals pursue a role-based certification to update their skills. Microsoft announced its role-based certifications at its Ignite event in 2018. Instead of isolated technology certifications, role-based certifications consolidates the required training into job-specific programs. The programs are divided into fundamental, associate, and expert level certifications. For a full list of retiring exams and certificates, refer to Microsoft’s blog post. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Education IT certifications, Microsoft Rajeev Suri to step down as president and CEO of Nokia A checklist for success in the cloud About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Hiring neurodiverse people has given us an edge, says AirGate CEO Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada