https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/september-2014-in-review-blackberry-unveils-passport-home-depot-is-breached/100540
September 2014 in review: BlackBerry unveils Passport, Home Depot is breached | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Mobility Software Wireless & IoT September 2014 in review: BlackBerry unveils Passport, Home Depot is breached Nestor E. Arellano @NestorArellano Published: December 13th, 2014 It was sort of a glass half full or half empty scenario when BlackBerry Ltd. Reported a loss of $207 million in its last quarter but said its profits amounted to US916 million. “From a revenue standpoint, we might not be in the lowest point, but we are near the bottoming out,” said CEO John Chen. “We delivered a solid second quarter against our key operational metrics…and we are confident that we will achieve break-even cash flow by the end of FY2015.” It was also in September, that BlackBerry finally unveiled its new smart phone the oddly square-screened Passport. One of the biggest investigations into retail data theft commences after Home Depot confirmed that Canadian and American customers at its home improvement stores could have been affected since April by a breach of its payment card system. “While the company continues to determine the full scope, scale and impact of the breach, there is no evidence that debit PIN numbers were compromised,” Home Depot said in a statement. But that means that credit cards could have been compromised. Lenovo moves closer to sealing a US$2.1 billion deal to buy the x86 server and associated lines from IBM. The deal officially closes Oct. 1, with Lenovo gaining the System x, BladeCenter and Flex System blade servers and switches, x86-based Flex integrated systems, NeXtScale and iDataPlex servers and associated software, blade networking and maintenance operations from IBM. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Mobility, Software, Wireless & IoT BlackBerry, IBM, Lenovo, mobile devices, server, smart phones, x86 servers August 2014 in review: Wind lifts subscriber numbers October 2014 in review: Canadian Tire money gets a makeover About Nestor E. Arellano Toronto-based journalist specializing in technology and business news. Blogs and tweets on the latest tech trends and gadgets. Follow Follow @NestorArellano on Twitter Join Nestor E. Arellano on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content BlackBerry releases updates to SecuSUITE for Government and AtHoc Crisis Communication BlackBerry report says data losses increasing due to cloud misconfiguration Configuration mistakes blamed for bulk of stolen records last year: IBM Blackberry launches Digital Workplace Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada