https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/418208-2/418208
Hashtag Trending – San Francisco bans facial recognition tech. Microsoft supports epilepsy prediction tech. Facebook having trouble finding employees. | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – San Francisco bans facial recognition tech. Microsoft supports epilepsy prediction tech. Facebook having trouble finding employees. Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: May 21st, 2019 San Francisco becomes the first city in the US to ban its government from using facial recognition tech. Microsoft has thrown its support behind epilepsy prediction technology. And Facebook has had trouble hiring since the Cambridge Analytica scandal. It’s all the tech news that’s popular right now. Welcome to Hashtag Trending. It’s Monday, May 21st, and I’m your host, Buckley Smith. First up we have a story trending on Reddit. Despite being viewed as one of the more forward-thinking cities when it comes to the development and adoption of technology, San Francisco has become the first city in the US to ban its government from using facial recognition technology. This came about with the introduction of a wider-reaching anti-surveillance ordinance approved by the city on Tuesday. While private corporations will still be able to use it as they see fit, this will ban all 53 departments of the city’s government, including the police department. Next up is a story trending on Google. Microsoft is throwing some money behind research to develop technology that would predict seizures in people with epilepsy. Microsoft awarded its Artificial Intelligence (AI) for Accessibility grant to the University of Sydney in Australia for the development of this device, which is called NeuroSyd. By monitoring and processing brainwaves, the NeuroSyd will be able to warn its user of an impending seizure. While initially designed to allow drivers with epilepsy to receive warning that they need to pull over, its benefits will extend far beyond that. And our final story of the day comes our way from Reddit. We have all heard of Facebook’s data privacy scandals. It seems like almost every other day they do something to drag their reputation through the mud again, and I don’t know about you, but I am getting sick of it. And it seems the consequences of their actions are now affecting their ability to recruit the talent they need. They have seen the acceptance rate for job offers drop by almost 50% in the last couple of years. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Remember to add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Buckley Smith. Thanks for listening. Careers hashtag trending, podcast, podcasts Audits, uncertainty, and paperwork: The bureaucratic burden of SR&ED Cyber Security Today: Open database on 8 million Americans, advice to Asus computer owners and news on hactivists About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada