https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ibm-and-boehringer-ingelheim-partner-on-blockchain-for-clinical-trials/415962
IBM and Boehringer Ingelheim partner on blockchain for clinical trials | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Software IBM and Boehringer Ingelheim partner on blockchain for clinical trials Lynn Greiner @lynngr Published: March 22nd, 2019 Boehringer Ingelheim (Canada) Ltd. (BI) and IBM Canada are partnering to make clinical trials safer and more efficient through the use of blockchain. In a Canadian first, blockchain technology will be used in parallel with traditional techniques to log and track patients’ journeys throughout a pilot project beginning this month. “The blockchain system will log what the patient’s consent directive is, and then track the patient’s progress through the trial,” Bryan Addeman, blockchain market leader at IBM Canada explained in an email. “The idea is that when the patient comes in for a trial visit, the clinical site will have a portal where they can view which procedures the patient has consented to, and more importantly, which they have not consented to for that specific visit. The hope is that risks to violating the patient’s consent can be identified and resolved before they happen, improving patient safety.” The system will provide a single source of truth that is always up-to-date, and grants each stakeholder (patients, clinical sites, pharmaceutical sponsors, regulatory inspectors, and others) access to only the information they are allowed to see, protecting patient privacy. Dr. Uli Brödl, vice-president, medical and regulatory affairs, Boehringer Ingelheim (Canada) Ltd. Dr. Uli Brödl, vice president, medical and regulatory affairs, Boehringer Ingelheim (Canada) Ltd., said that BI started thinking about the value proposition of blockchain for healthcare in 2017, and approached IBM in mid-2018. It is already using the technology in supply chain management and is looking at other business applications such as data sharing and payment systems. “Since we are in the clinical trial business, we realized that the ecosystem is very complex, with many stakeholders, resulting in limited trust, transparency, little patient empowerment, high inefficiency, process inefficiency, that may impact trial quality and increases cost,” he said. “With this in mind, since we believe in partnering for success, we approached IBM with the project to ultimately improve patient care and serve patients in the healthcare system.” He went on, “Our understanding and hypothesis is that blockchain technology in healthcare improves trust, transparency, patient empowerment, and in clinical trials, via process automation reduces human error, therefore increasing trial quality and patient safety at reduced cost.” Addeman said that, while this is the first application in clinical trials, he has seen increasing activity around blockchain in healthcare in the past year, much of it involving patient consent for access to their health records. Identity management and claims verification are two other hot topics. He said that while many blockchain use cases require a certain level of adoption before we see benefits, the BI project is exciting because it has the potential to immediately improve patient safety. It also has the potential to be used in multiple types of trial, according to Brödl. “The concept should be applicable to any disease area and should be applicable to prevention trials as well as treatment trials,” he noted. “The technology and the value proposition of the technology are pretty much disease agnostic.” Results on the pilot projects are expected in the second half of this year. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Software Blockchain, healthcare, IBM, patient information Huawei Matebook 13 review: honey, I've shrunk the Matebook X Pro Over a quarter of firms suffered irreparable data loss: Vendor study About Lynn Greiner Lynn Greiner has been interpreting tech for businesses for over 20 years and has worked in the industry as well as writing about it, giving her a unique perspective into the issues companies face. She has both IT credentials and a business degree. Follow Follow @lynngr on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Azure NetApp files become HIPAA compliant Maple launches free online screening and consultation solution in response to COVID-19 Ottawa Hospital announces partnership to democratize its data throughout the organization Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada