https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/huawei-reveals-the-foldable-huawei-mate-x-smartphone-at-wmc-2019/415307
Huawei reveals the foldable Huawei Mate X smartphone at MWC 2019 | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Mobility Wireless & IoT Huawei reveals the foldable Huawei Mate X smartphone at MWC 2019 Tom Li @itworldca Published: February 24th, 2019 The Huawei foldable phone has finally made its debut at Mobile World Congress 2019 as the Huawei Mate X. ITWC had interviewed Yanmin Wang, president CEE & Nordic Region for Huawei’s Consumer Business Group, and had access to a behind-the-scenes photo shoot. The Huawei Mate X sports a different design compared to its competitors. The first thing that jumped out was just how thin the device really is. Folded together, it measures only 11mm and just 6.9mm unfolded. Huawei accomplished this by reducing the width of one half of the display and inserted a ridge along on the right edge of the phone. The of the ridge holds the charging connector and a vertical camera array, both of which pose limitations to the display’s thickness. It’s stressed during the interview that the phone does not have a gap when folded. The secret is in the hinge. Huawei’s patented hinge design has over 100 components and eliminates the gap completely. In what’s called Falcon Wing design, the display folds inwards, keeping the two halves exposed when closed. In the folded mode, the front display measures 6.6″ and a resolution of 2,480 x 1,148p, while the rear measures 6.3″ with a 2,480 x 1,052p resolution. The two halves combine into an 8.4″, 2,480 x 2,200 display when unfolded. The display has no cut out to obstruct any display element. Like the other foldable phones, the Mate X holds two batteries that total to a 4,500 mAh capacity. Due to the larger display, its endurance likely will not match that of a phone with a smaller display, such as the Huawei Mate 20 Pro. Powering the massive display is Huawei’s 7nm Kirin 980 SoC, the same chip that powers the Huawei Mate 20 Pro. Because there’s now a display in the back, the rear camera can also act as the front camera. In addition to higher quality selfies, it also allows picture preview on the other half of the display. Huawei didn’t go into the specifics about its specification, only mentioning that it uses Leica lenses and designed by Red, one of the most prestigious video equipment makers. A large display loses its meaning if it doesn’t add any tangible benefits to workflow, which is why Huawei demonstrated side-by-side app operation and promised a more natural experience in Microsoft Office. Being a flagship device, there’s no way that the Mate X would miss out 5G. The particular 5G chip it uses is the Balong 5000 and quad antennas. The system has full massive MIMO and mmWave support. Huawei promises a maximum throughput of 4.6Gbps at sub-6GHz frequencies, twice that of the Qualcomm Snapdragon X50. The Huawei Mate X will only come in Interstellar blue with a fully protective case being an optional purchase. Units should hit select outlets beginning in June for an eye-watering $2,299 Euros – or just under CAD$3,500. Tom Li’s travel and accommodations to cover Mobile World Congress 2019 are paid for by Huawei. Huawei did not have a chance to review or approve content before publication. Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility, Wireless & IoT Android, foldable smartphones, Huawei, Huawei Mate X, Kirin, kirin 980, MWC 2019, smartphone Huawei announces 5G basestation chip ahead of MWC 2019 New MLSE digital boss seeks to transform Raptors and Leafs fan experience from the stadium to the digital realm About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Huawei Watch GT 2 ups the ante in functionality Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone Huawei Mate 30 Pro set to debut in Canada without Google apps Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada