https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/aws-details-steps-to-digital-transformation-highlights-machine-learning/424776
AWS details steps to digital transformation, highlights machine learning | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech AWS details steps to digital transformation, highlights machine learning Lynn Greiner @lynngr Published: December 4th, 2019 LAS VEGAS – Amazon Web Services (AWS) chief executive officer Andy Jassy highlighted 27 new services during his keynote at the company’s eighth annual re:Invent learning and education conference and urged customers not to procrastinate in starting their digital transformations. He told the 65,000 attendees that not all of the key components in the process are technology elements. First, he said, the senior leadership team needs to be aligned behind the effort. Without that, it’s easy for dissenters to block the initiatives. Second, set top-down aggressive goals. It’s easy to go for a long time just dipping a toe into the water if those goals aren’t present and pursued. Third, train builders. And fourth, don’t let the organization get paralyzed by the notion of the effort involved before you even start. Machine learning (ML) featured heavily in the new services unveiled that will help with the technology components of the transformations. “For the first several years of ML, developers and companies were so passionate and excited to get value from data that they would use clunky tools,” he said, pointing out that there were no integrated development environments (IDEs) for ML as there are for programmers doing more traditional development. He then announced SageMaker Studio, an IDE for Amazon SageMaker, the company’s managed service that provides developers and data scientists with the ability to build, train, and deploy machine learning models quickly. It supports the major machine learning frameworks – TensorFlow, PyTorch, Apache MXNet, Chainer, Keras, Gluon, Horovod, Scikit-learn, and Deep Graph Library – and provides a single, web-based visual interface where developers can perform all ML development steps. It gives them complete access, control, and visibility into each step required to build, train, and deploy models, including uploading data, creating new notebooks, training and tuning models. Along with SageMaker Studio, Jassy announced a series of additional tools, all of which can be accessed through the SageMaker Studio interface. They included SageMaker Notebooks, SageMaker Experiments, SageMaker Debugger, SageMaker Model Manager, and SageMaker AutoPilot. “We’re always going to give you the major tools to do your job,” he noted. Added Dr. Matt Wood, vice-president, artificial intelligence at AWS, “The dirty secret of ML is that you don’t train one model, you train dozens and pick the best. For the first time, SageMaker Studio pulls it all together.” Eric Gales, country leader, commercial sales, at AWS Canada said there’s a lot of interest around SageMaker among his customers. “It makes machine learning easier to use,” he said. “And it’s more accessible to developers.” François Côté, chief digital and technology officer at Montreal-based Fairstone Financial is also excited about how the technology is evolving to give more users access to it than they would have with traditional resources. “AI is important to us as a lender,” he said, adding that it’s important that there are no biases in the models that lead to discrimination in loans. “SageMaker and a lot of automated models will put capabilities in more hands. If we have a strong governance model around the data, we will continue to do things the right way.” Added Woods, “Our mission for ML is to take this magical technology, demystify it, and put it in as many hands as possible. We’ve invested in improving the underlying tasks, making sure AWS is the best place to run the workloads.” Lynn Greiner is attending re:Invent as a guest of AWS. Her travel and lodgings were covered by AWS, but the company did not review this story prior to publication. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech AWS, AWS ReInvent Cyber Security Today - Edward Snowden on privacy, a phone scam victim, suspicious browser extensions, and more University of Ottawa to open cybersecurity research hub About Lynn Greiner Lynn Greiner has been interpreting tech for businesses for over 20 years and has worked in the industry as well as writing about it, giving her a unique perspective into the issues companies face. She has both IT credentials and a business degree. Follow Follow @lynngr on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hybrid AWS Outposts ‘a great option’ for manufacturing, healthcare, says AWS director BlackBerry adds Cylance to QNX, announces partnerships with AWS, Damon, and Renovo AWS makes machine learning fun Tips for coping with the constantly changing cloud scene Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada