https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/lacavera-gives-up-ceo-post-remain-chaiman-of-wind-mobile/98575
Lacavera gives up CEO post, remains chairman of Wind Mobile | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Wind Mobile chair Anthony Lacavera at 2014 Canadian Telecom Summit(c) ITWC staff photo Careers Infrastructure Leadership Wireless & IoT Lacavera gives up CEO post, remains chairman of Wind Mobile Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: October 27th, 2014 In 2011 Wind Mobile chair and co-founder Anthony Lacavera took over as CEO of the startup carrier, with the number of subscribers around 300,000 and not growing as fast as he’d like. Today, with new money about to be injected and over 750,000 subscribers, he relinquished control to chief executive officer Pietro Cordova. Lacavera will remain chairman. In a statement the company said he will remain a shareholder and “have an active role at the board level, including working with the company on business planning and strategy.” The change follows word last month that subject to regulatory approval Lacavera’s investment company, Globalive Capital, would buy all of the direct and indirect debt and equity of its partner, Amsterdam-based VimpelCom Ltd. VimpelCom, whose largest shareholder is Russian magnate Mikhail Fridman, was always a reluctant investor in Wind, one of the smallest of its portfolio of telecom companies around the world. It gained its minority share in Wind by buying some of the assets in March, 2011 of Orascom Telecom Holdings, Wind Mobile’s financial backer, to become a company with over 173 million subscribers in 19 countries. Related Articles Wind ‘here to stay:’ Lacavera VimpelCom-Wind deal okayed by shareholders But Wind’s growth was stunted by having to face entrenched Canadian incumbents Bell Mobility, Rogers Communications and Telus Corp. While Cordova came to Wind in 2012 from VimpleCom owned Wind Telecomunicazioni of Italy, to be COO, VimpleCom was having trouble figuring out what the Canadian division’s future would be. At one point it offered to take complete control, perhaps to make a sale easier. However, the Harper government refused, reportedly concerned about foreign ownership. That led VimpelCom to refuse to fund Wind Mobile’s expansion, including money for bidding in this year’s 700 MHz auction. However, the Harper government let it be known it wouldn’t approve a VimpelCom buyout. That led Lacavera to hunt for new investors: They include Toronto-based hedge fund West Face Capital, California-based private equity firm Tennenbaum Capital Partners, LG Capital Investors, Novus Wireless Communications of Vancouver and Serruya Private Equity. Their shareholdings and Wind’s strategy for the future haven’t been announced yet. Careers, Infrastructure, Leadership, Wireless & IoT carriers, Wind Mobile, wireless news Sophisticated attack uses fake Web sites as bait Organizations taking shortcuts on IT security, says vendor About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Canada ranks on top of Internet affordability: Economist Wind Mobile is now Freedom Mobile, offers LTE in Toronto and Vancouver More Canadian telcos should detail police data requests: Privacy commissioner Telecom CEO: “Empower the right person with the right skillset to step up at the right time” Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada