https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-github-launches-mobile-app-google-under-federal-inquiry-bell-complains-about-internet-wholesale-rates/423977
Hashtag Trending – Github launches mobile app; Google under federal inquiry; Bell complains about internet wholesale rates | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Github launches mobile app; Google under federal inquiry; Bell complains about internet wholesale rates Tom Li @itworldca Published: November 14th, 2019 Today’s Hashtag Trending episode talks about the drama between Google and the U.S. government, as well as the friction between Bell and the CRTC. Also, GitHub launched a mobile app, so that’s pretty cool. Thank you for tuning, it’s Thursday, November 14th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Reddit, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services is now investigating the collaboration between Google and Ascension. The Wall Street Journal published a report on Tuesday, which revealed that Google has been collecting Ascension patient data without their knowledge. According to the report, sensitive information including patient names, medical history, and doctor diagnoses have been passed off to Google to develop AI products. Google has appended its announcement blog post welcoming the federal inquiry, and maintains that it complies with all relevant laws. Trending on Google, Bell has asked the Canadian government to reverse the internet wholesale rates set by the CRTC. In August, the CRTC drastically lowered the cost smaller providers must pay to access major provider’s infrastructures. In its press release, the CRTC said the rates were lowered to foster competition. The major providers are of course unhappy with the change. In its letter, Bell wrote that the new rates are below its cots and may result in a reduction of services. Trending on Google, Github has released its first mobile app. The app, which is exclusive to iOS for now, allows developers to comment on code through their mobile devices. Dana Lawson, vice president of engineering at GitHub, said that the project materialized because people kept on asking for it. Currently, the app only focuses on the social aspect of collaborative coding, which means you won’t be able to actually edit code just yet. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Dell debuts Dell EMC PowerOne, CTO says competition incapable of ‘doing what we’re doing’ in automation space Montreal’s Stradigi AI raises $53 million About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada