https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-google-to-shield-personal-data-facebook-signs-lease-in-new-york-disney-early-reactions/424108
Hashtag Trending - Google to shield personal data, Facebook signs lease in New York, Disney+ early reactions | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Google to shield personal data, Facebook signs lease in New York, Disney+ early reactions Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: November 18th, 2019 Google is bowing down to European data protection authorities, Facebook signs a lease for 30 floors of office space in New York, and despite technical glitches, millions flock to Disney’s new streaming platform. Google says starting February, its ad exchange will stop telling advertisers what categories of websites users are visiting, a response to European authorities that have said the tech giant’s real-time ad auctions violate GDPR rules. Google has faced scrutiny on both sides of the Atlantic over its advertising business, with 50 U.S. attorneys general launching an antitrust investigation into the search giant last week. The move also comes after recent reports surfaced that some of the UK’s largest health websites had been sharing sensitive data with companies like Google. There’s still plenty of chatter about Facebook’s new office space in New York. The social media giant signed a lease for more than 1.5 million square feet of office space in New York City’s Hudson Yards. The lease includes 30 floors and three buildings, and Facebook says the deal is one of the largest real estate transactions in Facebook’s history. And lastly, social media is still abuzz about the latest streaming service to hit the market. Despite some technical hiccups, Disney+ says it has already reached over 10 million customers since last week’s launch, propelling Walt Disney’s shares to record highs. The new streaming service includes hundreds of films from the company’s own vault, and several new tv shows from Marvel Studios. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Humber College launching cloud computing certificate in partnership with AWS Cyber Security Today - Medical supply firm falls for phishing, drug treatment chain patient data exposed, Americans worried about privacy and more About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada