https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/what-should-be-in-an-incident-response-teams-go-bag/388774
What should be in an incident response team's Go Bag | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Shutterstock.com Privacy & Security What should be in an incident response team’s Go Bag Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: February 4th, 2017 CISOs form an incident response team with the hope it will never have to be called on. With any luck, it won’t. But in addition to deciding who should be on the team — which I’ll deal with later — what it needs to do to collect and analyze data can sometimes be overlooked. Shelly Giesbrecht, a member of Cisco Systems’ computer incident response services team, has outlined what’s in her group’s ‘go bag.‘ which has to be ready for the team to grab when it’s called by customers for help. If you want to build one for yourself, here are the ingredients: –The heart is a powerful laptop (an i7 processor, 64 GB of memory) with multiple solid state hard drives for speed; –One or two hardware or software-based write-blockers, to ensure the data collected is unchanged from the original media from which it was sourced. The write-blocker is deployed between the original media and the laptop during the data collection; –Licensed forensic software that collects the data and ensures the data is what was expected, This copy of the data is also hashed and compared to the original to verify it is identical; –A USB portable drive; –Other tools including boot disks, cables, small toolkits, a digital camera, anti-static bags, labels and multiple external storage drives to ensure all data can be collected. This will help the team do a number of things including help with business continuity, security incident response and forensics (whether done by the internal infosec team or handed to an external expert for processing). Related Articles How to get the most out of your incident response plan test When Martin Bally became CISO of TRW Automotive in 2013, the billion-dollar international manufacturing giant had narrowly escaped being the... December 4th, 2015 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Five tips for building an incident response plan Like all CIOs, Darryl Lemecha worries about viruses and hackers, data centre problems and technology meltdowns. But what separates his... May 15th, 2007 Mary Pratt @itworldca Every organization’s incident response plan is different, but broadly speaking Cisco notes it has to ensure the cause of the incident should be fixed as soon as reasonably possible without further jeopardizing the security or integrity of systems or data, and without destroying important evidence (for example, over-writing a corrupt database from a backup without preserving the original). As to who should be on the IR team, this paper from the SANS Institute will be helpful. Again, there is no set rule but it is recommended members include –a member of upper level management who can give the team authority to do its job and make big decisions; –infosec team members who are trained in assessing the extent of damage, containment, basic forensics, and recovery; –an IT auditor, if the organization has one, who’s role is to observe, learn why the incident came to be, ensure procedures are being followed, and work with IT/security to avoid problems in the future; –someone from the physical security team; –a lawyer; –someone from the human resources department, in case stolen data includes employee information; –internal or external public affairs, for dealing with employees and the press; –external resources (from vendors, expert recovery and forensic consultants). “Creating a Computer Incident Response Team is not going to be the best solution for every company,” says SANS, “but in many if not most settings, it can be an invaluable tool. It will improve response time to any computer base problems you may encounter, ensure that the incident handling methods are supported by the company, and prevent a state of chaos and panic when an actual incident occurs.” Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security security strategies Canadian children's program wins top honours in worldwide entrepreneur competition Increasing cyber incidents could mean 'tragedy' for online trust: Industry group About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada