https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/how-to-stonewall-the-hackers-trying-to-to-get-around-your-mfa/427814
How to stonewall the hackers trying to to get around your MFA | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security How to stonewall the hackers trying to to get around your MFA Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: February 27th, 2020 Multi-factor authentication (MFA), a security system that requires multiple methods of authentication from independent categories of credentials to verify a user’s identity has been held up by many experts as one of the best way to protect against brute force attacks and spear phishing lures on credentials. And yet, if anything is true when it comes to technology, it’s that nothing (not even MFA) is unhackable. While a Microsoft report from August 2019 suggests MFA blocks 99.9 per cent of automated cyberattacks, those assertions begin to fade in the face of recent news that hacking groups in China are bypassing two-factor authentication in web server attacks, and specialized tools like evilginx, are making phishing feasible, even when the target uses two-factor authentication. Register for: “Many Ways to Defeat Multi-Factor Authentication and How To Stop the Bad Guys” Where does that leave companies in 2020? Exposed, especially if they’re taking the attitude that with MFA they’re safe as Fort Knox. According to KnowBe4 Data-Driven Defense Evangelist Roger Grimes and Chief Hacking Officer Kevin Mitnick, there are not merely one or two but at least a dozen ways to get around MFA. Would you like to know what those ways are? On Thursday, March 26th, Grimes will bring his more than 30 years of security experience to the table when he meets with ITWC CIO and Chief Digital Officer Jim Love to discuss come together for in the webinar Many Ways to Defeat Multi-Factor Authentication and How To Stop the Bad Guys. In this hour-long session, Love and Grimes will look at 12 ways bad actors have been able to hack MFA solutions. The live webinar will also examine the role your workers play in a blended-defence strategy. As a special bonus, the session will also include a (pre-filmed) hacking demo with Kevin Mitnick, who was once the FBI’s most wanted hacker. He now helps companies defend themselves. Mitnick’s demo includes real-life successful examples of every attack type. You will come away from this webinar with a deeper understanding of the advances hackers are making, and a better sense of how to defend your MFA solution. Register now for this webinar Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security authentication, cybersecurity, KnowBe4, MFA, security Hashtag Trending - Gif/Jif debate resurfaces, Clearview AI get’s breached, Tesla Autopilot woes Group to create Canadian cyber standards for electricity sector IoT devices About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity Think multi-factor authentication can’t be hacked? Think again Why pizza party security training doesn’t cut it anymore Apple joins FIDO Alliance to help end passwords Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada