https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/north-announces-focals-2-0-smartglasses/424822
North announces Focals 2.0 smart glasses | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Infrastructure North announces Focals 2.0 smart glasses Tom Li @itworldca Published: December 10th, 2019 North, the Waterloo-based consumer smart glasses company, announced today the second iteration of its stylish smart glasses: Focals 2.0. Consequently, the first generation of Focals smart glasses ceases production today, North added. The Focals 2.0 now folds like regular glasses. Details surrounding the new Focals 2.0 are scarce. The teaser product images shot in near pitch-black only showcased its vague silhouette. Without a reference point, it’s difficult to determine its size relative to the original. With that said, its press release indicated that it’s 40 per cent lighter, indistinguishable from normal glasses, and sports a display with 10 times higher resolution. In addition, the legs now fold at the joint to the lens frame. On the original Focals, the legs collapsed halfway as the front portion held the projector and the battery, which were fixed to the frame. Credit: Tom Li Stephen Lake, North’s chief executive officer, said that Focals 2.0 is “on a completely different level” and that it’s the “most advanced smart glasses ever made” in its press release. The Focals smart glasses hosts a tiny projector inside the leg of the glasses. Its output is then reflected directly onto the user’s fovea via a special area on the lens; creating a clear image without needing the eye to focus. When connected to an Android or Apple smartphone, users can scroll through weather, turn-by-turn directions, and notifications using a control ring that fits on their fingers. To read more about how it works, please refer to our primer. In February 2019, North announced that prescription lenses for Focals have entered full production. Pricing and availability for the new Focals have yet to be announced. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Infrastructure Focals, focals by north, North, smart glasses, wearables Hashtag Trending- Ericsson pays big fines; Google unjust firings?; Microsoft shelves Wunderlist Breaking down cybersecurity best practices one castle wall at a time About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Facebook’s new business venture, IT safeguards from Elections Canada, Uber’s new safety system Trying on Ford’s Sleep Suit at the Canadian International Auto Show – All Hands on Tech All Hands on Tech – Fitbit Charge 3 review North Focals review: an impressive and stylish try at smart glasses Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada