https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-coronoavirus-scares-mwc-youtube-revenue-detailed-chrome-to-curb-annoying-ads/426969
Hashtag Trending – Coronoavirus scares MWC; YouTube revenue detailed; Chrome to curb annoying ads | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Coronoavirus scares MWC; YouTube revenue detailed; Chrome to curb annoying ads Tom Li @itworldca Published: February 6th, 2020 The coronavirus has scared off two major companies from attending Mobile World Congress, YouTube released its revenue for the first time, and Google to curb annoying video ads. Thank you for tuning into Hashtag Trending, it’s Thursday, February 6th, and I’m your host, Tom Li Trending everywhere, the coronavirus has scared off two major companies from attending Mobile World Congress. LG, the Korean appliance and smartphone maker, announced earlier this week that it would no longer be attending. ZTE, a major Chinese telecommunication company, said it has cancelled its press conference but will still attend the show. In order to defend against potential xenophobia, ZTE has listed several self-imposed precautions including staff quarantine and sanitization rules. Despite the outbreak, GSMA, MWC’s organizer, has maintained that the show would continue as planned. Trending on Google, YouTube has released its revenue report for the first time. According to the Q4 2019 earnings report, YouTube reeled in $15 billion in revenue in 2019. The number is a bit confusing, however, as the CNBC pointed out that it doesn’t include YouTube’s nonadvertising revenue like YouTube TV. Those services are instead grouped with YouTube’s other services. In comparison, Google’s 2019 search engine revenue was almost 10 times higher, amounting to $134 billion (Statista). And here’s another piece of news from Google, the company has announced plans to curb disruptive video ads. No, it didn’t mean the ads on YouTube, but rather the unskippable ones that cover too much of the screen. Those, of course, isn’t the only criteria. Google has defined a completely new set of rules according to the Coalition for Better Ads. Google Chrome has given four months for site owners to comply with the new rules or risk having those ads blocked come August. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Vodafone to chop Huawei equipment from core of its European wireless network Bell chooses Nokia as 'first' 5G network supplier, awaits Huawei decision About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada