https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hp-updates-midrange-elitebook-and-zbook-with-high-end-features/417963
HP updates midrange EliteBook and ZBook with high-end features | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Mobility HP updates midrange EliteBook and ZBook with high-end features Tom Li @itworldca Published: May 14th, 2019 HP Inc. has recently announced its updated mainstream EliteBook laptops and ZBook workstation PCs. HP Elitebook 800 Updated models include the 13” convertible EliteBook x360 830, 13.3” EliteBook 830 G6, 14” EliteBook 840 G6, and 15” EliteBook 850 G6. HP outfitted its entire EliteBook 800 enterprise laptop line to use Intel’s 8th-Gen “Whiskey Lake-U” mobile processors, which provide a marginal performance bump to the “Kaby Lake-R” processors released last year. While performance remains largely on par, the new processors do include new support for WiFi 6 and hardened BIOS protection. Processor aside, a few premium features from HP’s higher-end products have made their way into the 800 series. This includes a brighter, more energy efficient 1,000 nit display, a hardware camera killswitch, Gigabit LTE, Wi-Fi 6 support, and ultra-fast charging. HP also claims that the EliteBook 800 series can last up to 18 hours on a single charge. The EliteBook 840 and EliteBook 850 also have the option of discrete AMD RX550X graphics. All HP laptops are protected with HP’s SureSense software security suite, an AI-driven malware defense solution. In addition, they also feature HP’s 3rd-gen Privacy Screen, which narrows viewing angles and prevent people next to you from reading your display. All EliteBook 800 series laptops are designed to be easily portable. They feature a slim, all-aluminum chassis and undergo MIL-STG 810G rigidity testing. HP will start accepting orders for the HP EliteBook 800 series starting in June. No official pricing has been revealed. HP ZBook G6 HP has also updated its creative-focused ZBook series. Catered towards graphics professionals, the 14” ZBook 14u G6 and 15” ZBook 15u G6 mobile workstations feature a 4K IPS display capable of covering 100 per cent of the Adobe RGB color gamut. New processor and graphics options have been added as well; new to the series is the Intel 8th Gen Core i7-8660U processor and the AMD Radeon Pro WX 3200 professional graphics card. Like HP’s other enterprise devices, the new ZBooks are protected with HP’s Sure Sense AI anti-malware. The HP ZBook 14u G6 and ZBook 15u G6 will be available in June for an undisclosed cost. Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility business laptop, HP, HP Canada, HP Enterprise, Laptop, postmedia Isreali startup launches Hailo-8 AI chip, targets world-wide deployment Serious vulnerabilities found in WhatsApp, Cisco devices About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada