https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canadiancio-of-the-year-finalists-gathering-for-powerful-discussion/422894
CanadianCIO of the Year finalists gathering for powerful discussion | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Big Data & Analytics Cloud Digital Transformation Leadership CanadianCIO of the Year finalists gathering for powerful discussion Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: October 15th, 2019 How often do you get the opportunity to sit in on a free flow of ideas between senior business thought leaders? Probably, not often enough. But on Nov. 14, ITWC is giving you your chance as it hosts a virtual town hall featuring seven of the 2019 ITAC CanadianCIO of the Year award finalists. These are senior leaders who have been nominated by their colleagues and peers for the top industry prize. Moderated by ITWC’s CIO Jim Love and Managing Editor Alex Coop, the one-hour discussion will focus on the changing role of the CIO, but the panel will also be asked about: What skills CIOs will need to hone in the next five years to succeed What challenges CIOs face when it comes to developing standards around the implementation of AI systems The toughest decisions they have ever made in business, and how they made it Register to attend “The Changing Role of the CIO” “It’s a shifting landscape for CIOs. They are increasingly being called upon for their business insights and to exercise their leadership abilities all at a time of nonstop change,” said Love. “We’ve been running the CanadianCIO of the Year award for several years, but this year’s finalists cadre is probably the most outstanding we’ve had. “I’m very much looking forward to the insights they bring to the virtual town hall with the hope that it will help and inspire those of us already in positions of leadership as well as those who are planning their careers — our next generation of tech leaders.” The following CIOs have committed to participating in the virtual town hall: Darryl Vleeming, CIO, Aurora Cannabis Inc., has over 20 years of experience in senior IT leadership, project delivery, and IT strategic planning at publicly traded international corporations, with a specific focus on driving business value. Peter Sweers, CTO, Interac Corporation, is responsible for all technology and security, delivering operational platforms such as the Interac Token Service Provider and Interac e-Transfer, and supporting Interac network participants. Johanne Duhaime, CIO, Hydro Quebec, is responsible for all activities related to information and telecommunications systems, including system performance and stability, enterprise architecture, governance, maintenance, as well as project portfolio management. Dana Sanderson, CIO, University of Prince Edward Island, oversees the University’s IT strategy and execution — including governance and risk analysis — ensuring it fully supports UPEI’s academic mission. Peyman Parsi, Chief Client Delivery Officer, Global Technology Services at TMX Group, leads the TMX technology delivery organization comprised of: software development; solution/enterprise architecture; PMO office; quality assurance; technology operation; and support of TMX mission-critical equity/derivatives trading and clearing systems. Helen Wetherley Knight, CIO Calgary Drop-in Centre, leverages technological innovation to fight poverty and create a brighter future for a city in need of socio-economic transformation. Alan Fong, CTO, Dealer-FX, has built and developed innovative, high-growth technology companies in multiple industries, including automotive, healthcare, telecom, and enterprise workload management. Julie Leese, CIO and Chief Digital Officer, Transport Canada, is leading the modernization and renewal of Transport Canada’s national IM/IT program, and is helping facilitate the development of its short- and long-term digital strategy. “It’s not every day you get this chance to hear from so many thought leaders at one time, and in a format that allows for a free exchange of ideas. The conversation will among the CIOs, but we’re hoping there will be a big audience listening in to hear what they have to say, said Love. “We’re going to pack a lot into a single hour.” Register now for “The Changing Role of the CIO” Artificial Intelligence, Big Data & Analytics, Cloud, Digital Transformation, Leadership CanadianCIO, CIO, CIO of the Year, town hall, Virtual Finger Food investment in Calgary a 'call to action' for tech companies globally, says CSO Canadian consumers aren't taking IoT security seriously enough, says ESET report About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content How Canada can end the false sense of digital identity security COVID-19 crisis could spur on digital transformation Nokia restructures tech leadership to eliminate group chief information technology role Solving common enterprise data challenges takes a collaborative approach Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada