https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-wework-to-clean-house-more-ceos-bite-the-dust-facebook-top-propaganda-platform/422296
Hashtag Trending – WeWork to clean house; More CEOs bite the dust; Facebook top propaganda platform | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – WeWork to clean house; More CEOs bite the dust; Facebook top propaganda platform Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: September 30th, 2019 WeWork to clean house after CEO steps down; Even more CEOs leave their companies; Facebook listed as top platform for political misinformation Following the exit last week of WeWork’s CEO, Adam Neumann, the internet has been abuzz. And now we find another story about it trending on LinkedIn. The Wall Street Journal is reporting, based off of anonymous sources, that the company is set to clean house. Allegedly this will begin with Neumann’s inner circle, including the company’s chief product officer and vice chairman. It is also expected that the company will trim thousands of jobs from their approximately 12,000 employees. Staying on topic of CEOs from tech companies stepping down, last week we saw 3 CEOs of tech companies leave their position, including the previously mentioned Adam Neumann, and it is trending on LinkedIn. The other two prominent exits were the CEO of Juul, Kevin Burns, leave amongst the turmoil surrounding the company, and the CEO of Ebay, Devin Wenig. Wenig left the ecommerce company because of what he called differences with the board. And lastly, we have a story trending on Reddit that is relevant in these times as we approach elections in Canada and the US. Much has been said about the use of social media to spread political misinformation to influence elections, and it seems as though Facebook may be the biggest proponent of that. A report from the University of Oxford has revealed that Facebook is the most common platform used to spread political propaganda. The report went on to state that this is likely because the platform is just so massive, that it is difficult for the company to protect itself against such uses. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Telus takes home top spot in PCMag's Fastest Networks Canada test Survey shows that Canadian women still don’t feel welcome by tech companies About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada