https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/bell-not-worried-despite-u-s-concerns-on-huawei/46922
Bell not worried despite U.S. concerns on Huawei | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Bell not worried despite U.S. concerns on Huawei Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: October 9th, 2012 A U.S. Congressional committee report attacking two Chinese telecom network equipment makers raises questions of whether Canadian governments and enterprises should feel their data is secure here. On Monday the House of Representatives’ permanent select committee on intelligence issued a stinging rebuke to privately-held Huawei Technologies and ZTE on their potential security threat to U.S. interests given their “potential” ties to the Chinese government. “Based on available classified and unclassified information, Huawei and ZTE cannot be trusted to be free of foreign state influence and thus pose a security threat to the United States and to our systems,” the report said. The finding raises concern in this country because Huawei is a major equipment supplier to BCE Inc.’s Bell Canada, Telus Corp., Videotron and SaskTel. ZTE is a supplier to Public Mobile. Click here to read the full report Huawei employs about 450 people in Canada, including 137 in a major research facility in the Ottawa area. “We recognize, that as a Chinese-based telecommunications company, it is fair and reasonable to expect that we would be under some scrutiny from government,” Huawei Canada said in a statement. “For this reason, we have worked to conduct ourselves in a manner that positively reflects our contribution to Canada. “We work with over 500 companies worldwide, in 150 countries. Last year alone, Huawei sold over $32B in equipment globally. Similar to Canada, we are also making significant investments to expand locally in other major markets, including the United Kingdom.” In September the Globe and Mail reported that the Canadian government has pondered the possible threat of Huawei equipment on telecom networks here. This morning, a Bell spokesman issued a statement saying the telco has no worries. “Bell networks are secure,” the statement said. “Indeed our high levels of security are a primary reason most Canadian governments and businesses choose to rely on Bell network services. RELATED CONTENT Huawei asks US to explain exclusion from emergency network China calls Australia’s ban on Huawei unjust Telus, Carleton U, Huawei open lab “Bell has the scale to operate at a global level and we manage security appropriately with all our network suppliers, including Canadian, American and international partners such as Huawei, Cisco, Ericsson, Nokia Siemens and others. “For a company like Bell, security is of primary importance. We work with government and the Canadian and international telecom industry to ensure Bell always offers the highest possible levels of security to our customers. “We are confident in our network suppliers, including of course Huawei. Huawei partners with most of the world’s major wireless carriers, including Bell, Telus and others here in Canada. Telecom analyst Iain Grant of the SeaBoard Group consultancy issued a tart retort to the committee report. “I am not sure that the technical judgement of the U.S. Congress is ayardstick that Canadian companies need to consider when making technical decisions. “Canadian companies assess the attraction of Huawei gear on its merits, on function, on delivery and timeliness, on quality of what is delivered and on price. Paranoia is not a measurement they find germane.” A spokesperson for Public Safety Minister Vic Toews said the Harper government “is working to ensure that any risks to Canada’s telecommunications sector are identified and addressed” by working with carriers through the government’s Cyber Security Strategy, announced in 2010. Ironically, it was Huawei that asked the U.S. government last year to investigate allegations that it has ties to the Chinese government. “The allegation that Huawei somehow poses a threat to the national security of the United States has centered on a mistaken belief that our company can use our technology to steal confidential information in the United States or launch network attacks on entities in the U.S at a specific time,” wrote Ken Hu, Huawei’s deputy chair. “There is no evidence that Huawei has violated any security rules. Not only that, in the United States we hire independent third-party security companies, such as EWA, to audit our products in order to certify the safety and reliability of the products at the source code level. In addition, Huawei has established a “trusted delivery” model to protect the security of networks we supply. But after hearings the congressional committee said there isn’t enough information to come to a conclusion about Huawei and ZTE. “Despite hours of interviews, extensive and repeated document requests, a review of open-source information, and an open hearing with witnesses from both companies, the committee remains unsatisfied with the level of co-operation and candor provided by each company,” its report says. “Neither company was willing to provide sufficient evidence to ameliorate the committee’s concerns. Neither company was forthcoming with detailed information about its formal relationships or regulatory interaction with Chinese authorities. Neither company provided specific details about the precise role of each company’s Chinese Communist Party Committee. “Furthermore, neither company provided detailed information about its operations in the United States. Huawei, in particular, failed to providethorough information about its corporate structure, history, ownership, operations,financial arrangements, or management. Most importantly, neither company provided sufficient internal documentation or other evidence to support the limited answers they did provide to committee investigators.” As a result, the committee said U.S. government systems shouldn’t include equipment from Huawei or ZTE, nor should systems of government contractors. That would include U.S. network providers and data centre outsourcers. The committee also said private sector companies should “consider the long-term security risks” of buying equipment and services from Huawei or ZTE. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Bell, Canadian government, cloud security, Huawei, U.S. government Riverbed adds vSphere to Steelhead EX Acer's Windows 8 tablet will match iPad price About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Huawei Watch GT 2 ups the ante in functionality Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada