https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hpe-wants-to-help-make-data-centres-greener-unveils-new-efficiency-label/426613
HPE wants to help make data centres greener, unveils new efficiency label | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Infrastructure Leadership HPE wants to help make data centres greener, unveils new efficiency label Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: January 28th, 2020 The increased use of cloud computing doesn’t mean workloads are literally moving to the clouds – unfortunately – and recent projections suggest the global data centre generator market can expect steady growth over the next several years. To ensure that added infrastructure doesn’t further compromise the planet’s climate, server farm operators worldwide are being asked to cut carbon emissions and improve overall energy efficiency. Climate change was at the top of the agenda in Davos during the World Economic Forum last week, and it’s where Hewlett Packard Enterprise, together with industry leaders and universities, unveiled the Swiss Data Center Efficiency Label. The label’s initial goal to decarbonize data centres in Switzerland and significantly reduce their overall energy consumption has quickly expanded to encompass other countries. Monica Gille, HPE Switzerland director of sales. “We’re in discussions with the United Nations to see how we can promote it worldwide,” said Monica Gille, HPE Switzerland director of sales, who is directly involved with the project. She would be happy to introduce the label and its criteria guidelines to the Canadian market, she added. The idea developed through conversations with the federal government, she said. The government was concerned about projections suggesting data centres were going to contribute massively to the country’s growing electricity consumption rates, some reports pointing to a 50 per cent increase. The conversation becomes more complicated, noted Gille, when trying to quantify the impact IoT and other edge devices have on that exponential growth. The Swiss Datacentre Efficiency Association (SDEA) hopes to answer these questions and serve as a guide for any organization serious about reducing its own carbon footprint. It’s yet to have a website, but the group is comprised of École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), Green IT Switzerland, HPE, the Lucerne University of Applied Sciences and Arts (HSLU), the Swiss Data Centre Association (Vigiswiss) and the Swiss Telecommunications Association (ASUT). Also: Microsoft commits to carbon negative by 2030, among other environmental commitments Depending on the compliance with the efficiency criteria, which includes energy flow and output measurements, recycling capabilities and other measurements, data centers can be awarded a gold, silver or bronze label. A total of ten pilot users tested the criteria, indicated Gille. They ranged from public sector bodies to managed services providers, and after implementing these new technologies and procedures, saved up to 70 per cent of their energy. Five participants achieved the results with 100 per cent carbon-neutral energy sources, says HPE. “It was an excellent achievement overall,” said Gille. The new label comes shortly after the unveiling of Microsoft’s own goal to be carbon negative by 2030. Modernizing today’s infrastructure while also building new sustainable infrastructure will be an extremely slow and expensive process, but it’s promising to see large technology manufacturers take the lead when it comes to managing their own growing footprint, Shuli Goodman, executive director at LF Energy, told the publication. “It’s exactly what we need to see right now,” she said. Introduced in 2018, LF Energy is a relatively new project that supports open source innovation in the energy and electricity sectors. LF Energy’s focus, according to its website, is to “accelerate the energy transition and the decarbonization of the world’s economies.” Microsoft and HPE are tapping into a growing subset of businesses worldwide realizing the economic benefits of going green, explained Goodman. “That’s when it actually becomes critical to the operations of a company. That’s how we begin to steer things in a different direction, she said. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Infrastructure, Leadership climate change, hpe, postmedia, sustainability AMD CEO Lisa Su joins Cisco's board of directors Hashtag Trending - Huawei enters U.K. 5G; Shopify’s new office; don’t pay to activate your phone About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada