https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/five-steps-to-a-better-ransomware-response-plan/421514
Five steps to a better ransomware response plan | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Five steps to a better ransomware response plan Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: September 5th, 2019 With a bit of luck the city of New Bedford, Mass., escaped having to pay a demanded US$5.3 million to criminals after suffering a ransomware attack last month. The mayor of the city revealed Wednesday how 158 of the municipality’s workstations — less than five per cent of the total — were locked out by the malware. Fortunately, no critical systems were hit and after the criminals rejected an offer of US$400,000 for the decryption keys to unlock the scrambled data the city decided to restore the data from backups. Your firm may not be lucky enough to have only non-critical systems trashed by ransomware. Experts agree preparation is the key to protecting against such attacks. But merely relying on backups isn’t enough. In a column for Security Week, Flashpoint CEO Josh Lefkowitz outlined what’s needed for a mature incident response (IR) plan for ransomware: –A traditional IR plan won’t be enough. You have to face the fact doing the usual things to restore business continuity may not put the pieces back together. The ransomware may have permanently made critical files inaccessible. –Backups are a good defence, but they may not be perfect. Even the most secure backups can fail, or aren’t updated frequently enough. Accounting for these situations within a ransomware IR plan is crucial. –Paying up may be necessary. Know in advance what conditions under which the organization may have to pay, if there will be negotiations with the attacker and how the firm will pay. –Make sure all non-IT stakeholders — communications, legal, compliance, law enforcement — are brought in. There may be legal implications to paying up. –Finally, test the plan with a tabletop exercise. “Many organizations don’t realize how unprepared they are for a ransomware attack until they experience one,” writes Lefkowitz. “The undoubted chaos and stress brought on by an attack can make it exceedingly difficult to understand, much less communicate and execute, an IR plan.” Read the full column here. According a report last month from security vendor Vectra, ransomware is a fast and easy attack with a bigger payout than stealing and selling credit cards or personally identifiable information, because their value drops over time after a theft. Using hard-to-trace cryptocurrency for the ransom payment is an added advantage – so be better prepared. You may also be interested in reading this case study of an Ontario town’s experience with ransomware. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security ransomware, security strategies database.Database with phone numbers of millions of Facebook users found on Internet New ransomware strain appears to target Linux web servers About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada