https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/huawei-canada-announces-plans-to-bring-broadband-to-more-than-70-remote-communities/420209
Huawei Canada announces plans to bring broadband to more than 70 remote communities | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Mobility Huawei Canada announces plans to bring broadband to more than 70 remote communities Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: July 23rd, 2019 Huawei Technologies Canada has announced that it is partnering with Ice Wireless and Iristel to provide broadband access to over 70 remote communities across Canada by 2025; all of which are remote communities within the Arctic, Newfoundland and Labrador, and northeastern Quebec. Announced during a press conference in Ottawa on Monday, Huawei Canada’s vice-president of corporate affairs, Alykhan Velshi, said that communication infrastructure is a necessity that these communities do not currently have. “Few companies are capable of providing custom-tailored solutions to the far north — fewer still, I think, are willing to do so. But we recognize how important connection is to people’s lives,” said Velshi in the press conference. “It is the foundation of communication and commerce. Everyone deserves to be connected.” This is not Huawei Canada’s first foray into providing technology to remote communities, as this comes on the heels of last month’s announcement that it was partnering with Ice Wireless to provide 4G LTE service to Inuvik, a community in the Northwest Territories. While it was stated those services would be up and running by the end of June 2019, it is unclear if that was achieved. Of course, this announcement did not come without the usual controversy that accompanies Huawei in North America, as reporters at the press conference still prodded them with questions about the trust issues between the company and Canada. But Velshi said that the company is trying to rebuild that trust, and only time and effort can do so. “Trust is built over time,” said Velshi. “If you go to our office in Kanata or you go to our office in Markham, this perception that it’s sort of Dr. Evil’s lair and we’re toiling away at the latest world-ending scheme is false. It’s a bunch of engineers solving engineering problems.” Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Mobility Huawei Canada Average cost of a data breach is nearly $4 million, says study CGI awarded more than $24M in contracts from Canadian credit unions About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Huawei Mate 30 Pro set to debut in Canada without Google apps Huawei moves U.S. research centre to Canada Upcoming Huawei flagship phones will not be getting Google apps We welcome scrutiny, says Huawei Canada’s new VP of government affairs Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada