https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/samsung-appoints-roh-tae-moon-as-head-of-mobile-division/426269
Samsung appoints Roh Tae-moon as head of mobile division | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Roh Tae-Moon, Samsung's new head of mobile division. Source: Samsung Leadership Mobility Samsung appoints Roh Tae-moon as head of mobile division Tom Li @itworldca Published: January 20th, 2020 Roh Tae-moon, previously head of Samsung’s mobile development division, has been promoted to the head of Samsung’s entire mobile division. The 52-year old Roh Tae-moon oversaw the development of the Samsung Galaxy smartphones. In its press release, Samsung wrote that Roh Tae-moon’s leadership is needed to revitalize the organization in a competitive mobile device market. Roh Tae-moon’s reappointment as the head of the mobile division relieves the duty from Samsung President and chief executive officer Don-jin Ko. Samsung wrote that its top executives will focus on creating synergy between Samsung’s various branches and discovering business opportunities. The announcement came amidst four presidential promotions and five new duty reallocations; a massive round of restructuring for the company. Samsung will be holding its annual mobile press conference on February 11th, where it’s expected to unveil its Samsung Galaxy S20 smartphones. The upcoming Galaxy S20 series is expected to feature an overhauled design and a 108MP camera sensor. According to Statista, Samsung’s smartphone market share sat at 21.8 per cent in Q3 2019, a 1.3 per cent increase year-over-year. Huawei, on the other hand, grew by 4 per cent in the same period, reaching 18.6 per cent in Q3 2019. Samsung Electronics plans to finalize its reorganization efforts in the later parts of 2020. A full list of restructures can be found here. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership, Mobility galaxy, leadership, leadership changes, Samsung Citrix starts releasing permanent fixes for critical controller vulnerability City of Toronto updates its open data portal, adds new datasets About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cisco leadership undergoes another shuffle involving Amy Chang and David Goeckeler Coronavirus ‘decimated’ device manufacturing in February, says IDC Samsung 16GB LPDDR5 DRAM enters mass production Samsung launches Galaxy Z Flip foldable phone and Galaxy S20 series smartphones Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada