https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-beware-of-phony-snowden-book-offer-instagram-copyright-scam-and-bad-android-apps/422180
Cyber Security Today – Beware of phony Snowden book offer, Instagram copyright scam and bad Android apps | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – Beware of phony Snowden book offer, Instagram copyright scam and bad Android apps Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: September 25th, 2019 Beware of phony Snowden book offer, Instagram copyright scam and bad Android apps Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Wednesday September 25th, I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanada.com. To hear the podcast, click on the arrow below: Lots of people are worried today about privacy and how governments use technology. So the latest book by U.S. fugitive Edward Snowden, who worked for the CIA until he exposed secrets about government spying, is expected to be a hot seller. Well, don’t be suckered by an email offer you get for a copy. According to security firm Malwarebytes, hackers are offering the book as a Microsoft Word attachment. Victims who click on the attachment see a yellow warning asking them to enable content. Then, seemingly nothing happens. What’s you can’t see is malware is being downloaded onto your machine. This is a common trick: Use something that’s hot in the news as a lure for a malicious email campaign. A Russian man has pleaded guilty in a U.S. court to hacking a number of American financial institutions, wire fraud and bank fraud for his part in a gang operation between 2012 and 2015. He’ll be sentenced in February. Security firm Sophos reports that Instagram users are being targeted by an email campaign with fake copyright infringement alerts, saying you’ve posted something wrong. They warn you have to fill out a so-called Copyright Objection Form. But the goal is get your username and password. Not only that, the scam tries to get your birthday by asking for your date of birth. There are some tipoffs if you get one of these messages — spelling and grammatical errors and an oddly long web address that ends in “dot-CF”, which is not what you’d expect from Instagram. Twenty-five more malicious apps have been found in the Google Play Store, pretending to be photo utilities or fashion apps. Google usually quickly scans new apps and finds the bad ones. But according to security firm Symantec, this batch of apps was hard to detect because they used an interesting trick: They would install properly, but later send out a message to a controller to download malware that would also hide the app’s icon. Then advertising pops up on the victim’s device, seemingly from nowhere. The hackers, meanwhile, are getting money from the number of ads being shown from ad networks. Once notified, Google removed these apps. But they’ve been around for several months and downloaded more than two million times. As I’ve said before, Google does a good job of catching bad apps, but it isn’t perfect. Be wary of new apps, and especially from unknown developers. Your mobile device isn’t the place to play with the newest app. Finally, Microsoft usually issues security patches on the second Tuesday of each month. But it just issued a new one for a serious bug in the Internet Explorer browser. If you don’t have Windows 10 and can’t use the newer and safer Microsoft Edge browser, make sure you get the patch. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Canada, U.S. among 26 nations urging rules-based control over cyberspace Innovate or go under: The value of data as integral to business survival About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada