https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-washington-sues-google-and-facebook-zte-strikes-deal-with-u-s-sonos-new-alexa-enabled-speaker/406080
Hashtag Trending – Washington sues Google and Facebook; ZTE strikes deal with U.S.; Sonos' new Alexa-enabled speaker | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Public Sector Wireless & IoT Hashtag Trending – Washington sues Google and Facebook; ZTE strikes deal with U.S.; Sonos’ new Alexa-enabled speaker Eric Emin Wood @ericewood Published: June 8th, 2018 The state of Washington has sued Google and Facebook for allegedly not disclosing who purchased election ads. Chinese smartphone manufacturer ZTE’s U.S. operations officially get to stay in business. And users appear very interested in Sonos’ new Alexa-enabled smart speaker. Trending on Reddit: The state of Washington has sued Facebook and Google for allegedly violating its campaign finance laws by failing to maintain information about who buys election ads. As reported by Reuters, Washington attorney general Bob Ferguson is seeking penalties against both companies and an injunction for failing to disclose ad spending in state elections since 2013. Facebook told the wire service that it looks forward to resolving the lawsuit quickly after recently introducing tools for people to see who is buying political ads on its network, while a Google representative could not be reached for comment. Next, trending on LinkedIn: Chinese telecom firm ZTE has reached an agreement with U.S. officials to lift a ban against selling its products in the U.S. In an interview with CNBC, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross confirmed that ZTE has agreed to pay a fine of at least $1 billion USD for breaking embargoes against shipments of American components and technology to Iran. Under the agreement, ZTE must also replace its board and allow U.S. inspections officers to verify its compliance with American sanctions. The telecom firm had been designated a threat to U.S. security until Donald Trump tweeted his support for the company a few weeks ago. Finally, on Google, users appear to be interested in Sonos’ newest smart speaker, the Sonos Beam, an Alexa-enabled soundbar scheduled to go on sale for $499 in July 17. An early look in the Verge makes the 25-inch device sound like a glorified television speaker, but Sonos argues that as sound quality on TV shows has gone up, the sound quality on TVs themselves has gone down, and the Alexa support means Amazon Fire TV owners can use the speaker to activate their devices. Sonos also plans to add support for the Google Assistant later this year. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Public Sector, Wireless & IoT Alexa, Amazon, Facebook, Google, hashtag trending, smart speaker, sonos, U.S. government, ZTE Ottawa to set up network of cyber security experts to help protect critical infrastructure Cyber Security Today: Another cryptomining attack, update your Flash, more routers at risk About Eric Emin Wood Former IT World Canada associate editor turned consultant with public relations firm Porter Novelli. When not writing for the tech industry enjoys photography, movies, travelling, the Oxford comma, and will talk your ear off about animation if you give him an opening. Follow Follow @ericewood on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Hashtag Trending – Gates says US botched COVID-19 response; Snopes overwhelmed; Plague Inc. flips the script Hashtag Trending – 3D-printed ventilators; Drones yell at people to stay indoors; Banning targeted ads Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada