https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-car2go-pulls-out-of-toronto-new-details-emerge-about-pedestrian-killed-by-ubers-self-driving-car-elon-musk-bashes-media-suggests-media-credibility-check/405615
Hashtag Trending – Car2Go pulls out of Toronto; New details emerge about pedestrian killed by Uber's self-driving car; Elon Musk bashes media, suggests media credibility check | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Public Sector Hashtag Trending – Car2Go pulls out of Toronto; New details emerge about pedestrian killed by Uber’s self-driving car; Elon Musk bashes media, suggests media credibility check Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: May 25th, 2018 Car2Go pulls out of Toronto, new details emerge about Uber’s self-driving car that killed a woman in March, and Elon Musk gets roasted online after bashing the media, saying he plans to create a website evaluating journalists credibility. On Facebook – Following a Toronto City Council decision to force new car-sharing pilots to pay $1,500 per vehicle, Car2Go is suspending its Toronto operations starting June. Car2Go has been operating in Toronto since 2016, when it made its vehicles more accessible by introducing an on-street parking option. It resulted in a 51 per cent increase in membership, and the service was used by 80,000 Torontonians. In a statement sent out Thursday morning, Mayor John Tory said he believes there can be many benefits to car-sharing programs, but that restrictions should still exist. The company says it will consider returning to the city if Toronto follows in the footsteps of other global cities that don’t restrict on-street parking. On LinkedIn – Preliminary results of a National Transportation Safety Board investigation in the U.S. show Uber’s self-driving car system detected an Arizona woman about six seconds before the car collided and killed her. The safety board’s report says Uber’s system was working normally on the 2017 Volvo XC90, but that according to Uber, emergency braking maneuvers are not turned on while the vehicle is under computer control to reduce the potential for erratic vehicle behavior. The system is not designed to alert the operator, who is supposed to intervene in those types of situations. And lastly, on Facebook – Elon Musk’s to-do list just got longer. The Tesla, SpaceX and Boring Company founder wants to create a media credibility rating website named Pravda, which is Russian for truth. Musk tweeted about his idea following negative press coverage over a report on Tesla’s safety issues at the company’s factories. Members of the media were quick to react, calling Musk thin-skinned and suggesting he doesn’t understand how investigative journalism works. That’s what’s trending this week. Hashtag Trending is produced by the ITWC Podcast Network. If you enjoy Hashtag Trending, please be sure to give us a rating and a review on Amazon, Apple Podcasts, Google Play, or wherever else you get your podcasts from. Public Sector Elon Musk, hashtag trending, Uber GDPR advice to Canadian firms: Chill out, but get working on it Cyber Security Today: BMW cars could be hacked, British university fined for a hack, and more About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Hashtag Trending – Gates says US botched COVID-19 response; Snopes overwhelmed; Plague Inc. flips the script Hashtag Trending – 3D-printed ventilators; Drones yell at people to stay indoors; Banning targeted ads Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada