https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cogeco-peer-1s-new-owner-will-invest-in-fiber-networks-says-president/415658
Cogeco Peer 1's new owner will invest in fiber networks, says president | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Cogeco Peer 1’s new owner will invest in fiber networks, says president Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: March 5th, 2019 Cogeco Peer 1’s new owner will be investing in its fiber networks in Toronto and Montreal, says Susan Bowen, president of Cogeco Peer 1. Boca Raton, Fla.-based Digital Colony struck a deal with Cogeco Communications last week to acquire the managed services and colocation provider for $720 million. The deal is expected to close at the end of May. Related Cogeco Peer 1’s new Florida-based owner commits to keep HQ in Toronto, hire more staff The deal didn’t come as a surprise, Bowen says. “This didn’t just happen to us, it’s something that the right people have been involved in.” Susan Bowen, president of Cogeco Peer 1, plans to move to Toronto soon. Cogeco Peer 1’s revenue has been on a declining trend in the past couple of years under the ownership of Cogeco Peer 1. Bowen says reversing that trend will be accomplished on the back of a broad portfolio of assets, which includes the fiber networks in Canada and 16 data centres around the globe. Cogeco Peer 1 says it will take a “host neutral” stance as its client networks get ready for 5G wireless infrastructure. “We hope to secure more new logos and take them on the journey to the cloud,” Bown says, referencing Cogeco Peer 1’s colocation and managed hosting offerings. While Cogeco Communications will retain some portion of Cogeco Peer 1’s fiber in Toronto and Montreal for its own networking purposes, it’s not clear how that will be divided. Bowen says it’s an area that Digital Colony has been investing in for some time, with its other acquisitions, and that a close relationship with Cogeco Communications will continue after May 31. Digital Colony is “an incredibly astute organization,” Bowen says. “The team are incredibly focused and excited about working with us.” Bowen, who is currently based in London, U.K. plans to move to be based out of the Toronto headquarters soon. She’s making arrangements to move her family. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure cogeco, Cogeco Peer 1, fiber Want the best-reviewed enterprise mobility management? You'll need to use Macs, shows SoftwareReviews.com report Hit the reset button on Sidewalk Toronto or face legal action, civil liberties association tells government About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content AI isn’t great at solving problems, and other surprising truths discussed by experts at Brace for Impact event Cogeco Peer 1’s new Florida-based owner commits to keep HQ in Toronto, hire more staff Data can make or break an organization Taking Cloud to the Next Level – CanadianCIO Summit panel Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada