https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-june-26-2019-vacation-deal-shopping-advice/419201
Cyber Security Today — Vacation deal shopping advice | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today — Vacation deal shopping advice Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: June 26th, 2019 Looking for a vacation deal online? Here’s advice on how to spot scams. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Wednesday June 26th. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanda.com. Criminals don’t take vacations, which is why you still have to be cautious online this time of year. If a survey done by security company McAfee is representative, approximately one in eight Canadians have been scammed or nearly scammed when booking a vacation online. The result can be a loss of thousands of dollars in phony bookings, stolen identity, or both. Nearly one-third of those who fell for vacation scam were defrauded by falling for a deal that was too good to be true, says the McAfee survey. The Canadian Anti-Fraud Centre reports a scam where fraudsters post ads for vacations for sale, perhaps including airfare, on common websites like Kijiji and Craigslist. Buyers have to pay in full before the tickets are transferred in their names. But at the airport the victim learns the tickets are fake. There are rental and timeshare scams as well. So here’s what you should do: — When looking for vacations only access verified web sites or sites you know can be trusted. Ask for recommendations from people you know; — Use trusted platforms and verified payment methods when finalizing your bookings. Fraudsters may try to lure you away from a legitimate site with the promise of discounted rates. Keep all your communications and bookings on trusted platforms and verify the site before entering payment information. You’ve got to be careful: A hotel web site can be legitimate, but criminals may have infected the payment system, so when you go to another page to pay your money goes to a crook; –Be suspicious if an online ad doesn’t give the exact address of the rental and the same property is listed several times with different contact people. Be suspicious if credit cards are not accepted and you have to pay by wire transfer, money order, or cashier’s cheque; — Use security software that protects your identity and can warn about suspicious web sites; — If you’re on a mobile device be careful paying for things on a public Wi-Fi connection — like in stores, restaurants on city streets — unless you’re using a virtual private network or VPN. You’re safer using your cellular connection. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts LG G8 ThinQ review: the best LG phone closes the gap How to avoid the two biggest security mistakes in DevOps About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada