https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-kids-clothes-site-hacked-a-new-phony-email-extortion-scam-and-be-careful-with-internet-explorer/426328
Cyber Security Today – Kids clothes site hacked, a new phony email extortion scam and be careful with Internet Explorer | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – Kids clothes site hacked, a new phony email extortion scam and be careful with Internet Explorer Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: January 22nd, 2020 Kids clothes site hacked, a new phony email extortion scam and be careful with Internet Explorer Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Wednesday January 22nd. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanada.com. To hear the podcast click on the arrow below: Children’s apparel maker Hanna Andersson says some people who bought clothes from the website had their names and credit card numbers stolen. The thefts occurred between September 16 and November 11 last year after its online sales platform was hacked. According to a report the attacker was able to place code on the payment page that skimmed off valuable data as it was being entered by customers. Anyone who bought goods during that period is eligible for identity theft protection. They should also watch their monthly payment card statements for suspicious activity. There’s another phony email extortion scam going around. According to Bleeping Computer the email message says ‘Your Computer Hacked.” It directs recipients to open the attachment to get instructions on how to send the attacker $100. Don’t fall for this. The attachment is infected with malware that will steal your passwords and files. Beware of any email with a Microsoft Word or PDF attachment unless you know who sent it and are sure it’s legit. And remember, hackers may get into the accounts of people you know to send their messages, so even if an email sender address is right the attachment may not be safe. Encryption is a vital tool to protect businesses and individuals from attack. Scramble data and it becomes useless to theft. That’s why some versions of Windows come with encryption capabilities. You may have heard of Bitlocker, a Windows tool for scrambling entire hard drives. There’s also a Windows tool called EFS, which allows individual folders or files to be encrypted. However, a security firm called SafeBreach warns this capability could also be used by hackers as a form of ransomware by in effect turning Windows against itself. SafeBreach began quietly notifying anti-virus companies months ago and many have updated their product to detect a possible exploitation. Others say they will soon issue an update. Organizations worried about this vulnerability should think about turning EFS off and using other encryption technologies to protect data. Finally, if you or your organization still uses Microsoft Internet Explorer web browser, be warned there is a serious vulnerability. Microsoft hasn’t issued a patch yet. If you are an individual consider switching to Microsoft Edge or another browser. If you are an IT administrator apply a workaround or consider switching the company to another browser. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Canada ranks 2nd globally for tech adoption, says Cisco report, but fails to crack top 10 for basic needs and infrastructure Hashtag Trending - Huawei CFO hearing; Apple bends to FBI; North shotgunning patents About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada