https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/why-cisos-should-merge-it-ot-and-iot-networks-for-effective-defence/395489
Why CISOs should merge IT, OT and IoT networks for effective defence | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Why CISOs should merge IT, OT and IoT networks for effective defence Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: August 9th, 2017 As CISOs try to grapple with their finding the best way to hone their architectures they should forget the IT network may not be the only one needing defending. Increasingly organizations have an Internet of Things (IoT) network, comprised of HVAC and other systems, and many have an operational/industrial technology (OT) network, common in utilities and manufacturing, as well. The problem, Adi Dar, CEO of Cyberbit, pointed out in an interview this week, its usually IT leader see these networks as separate. That creates security risks because the attack surface is broadening. Dar notes the San Francisco Municipal Transport Agency was hobbled last year by an attack that knocked out desktop terminals needed for selling tickets, the Stuxnet virus attack on Iranian centrifuges are examples of combined IT/OT attacks, and the Dyn botnet. Related Articles San Francisco transit ransomware attack shows value of being prepared DDoS attack signals time for a two-tier Internet to boost security: Expert Was Stuxnet built to attack Iran’s nuclear program? “The new cyber attack is multi-vectored,” Dar is quoted as saying, “or as we like to call it, full stack: IT is often the best way in, and OT/IoT is where attackers can do damage.” To build an effective strategy CISOs need a handle on the entire body of connected devices across the enterprise, he argues. Then critical areas of the networks, such as their intersection points, can be discovered. To protect a merged network visibility is key. Dar talks of dashboards that condense all IT, OT and IoT data into a single screen to improve situational awareness. Has your organization looked at IT security this way? If not, it’s time you did. Read the full interview here Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security security strategies Hashtag Trending: Aug. 9, 2017 - Google's diversity spat; VR in the browser Avaya looks to exit Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada