https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-ai-goes-hollywood-twitters-new-reply-rules-old-vs-new-on-the-farm/425926
Hashtag Trending - AI goes Hollywood, Twitter's new reply rules, old vs new on the farm | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – AI goes Hollywood, Twitter’s new reply rules, old vs new on the farm Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: January 13th, 2020 Hollywood thinks AI has the answers to better film management, Twitter users will soon have more control over who can reply to their tweets, and farmers are buying 40-year-old tractors because they’re actually repairable. Warner Bros says it’s going to use artificial intelligence to create its next blockbuster. The technology will help predict the likelihood of a film’s success based on such factors as actors, budget and brand. According to Forbes, Warner Bros will be using SaaS platform Cinelytic’s software as part of the research process it undergoes when deciding which movies to commission. It can determine the ‘value’ aka profitability of an actor and also calculate how much money a film is likely to earn in cinemas and through supplementary merchandising, like BlueRay sales. I’m curious – could this AI have predicted that Robert Downey Jr., an enormous risk for studios a decade ago, would help kickstart a cinematic universe that would make billions? Hmm…. Twitter, at CES 2020, announced that it will put options to stop and restrict people replying to tweets later this year. This means that Twitter users will soon have more control over who can reply to their tweets. The social media giant says it’s in the process of adding a “conversation participants” setting on the platform’s compose screen. This new setting will have a total of four options, namely Statement, Panel, Group and Global. The Statement option will allow users to publish a tweet and receive no replies on it, the Panel option will allow only those people to reply if that a user was mentioned in the tweet, and the Group option will be for people the poster follows and mentions. As the same suggests, the Global option will allow any user to reply to a tweet. Lastly, farmers are getting tired of being unable to repair flashy new John Deere tractors, so they’re buying new models instead. Nowadays, when a John Deere tractor breaks down, you need a computer and special software to fix it. This new trend, first reported on by the Minnesota StarTribune, had more than 30,000 upvotes and 1,500 comments on Reddit as of this recording. Many comments pointed to the fact that big manufacturers also force you to buy special hose ends and hydraulic seals for certain repairs, while cheaper brands may not be as reliable in all aspects, but can be fixed with generic parts. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Cyber Security Today - Watch your webcam, privacy groups complain about Android apps and more updates Cyber Security Today - Millions of files on Americans found open on Internet, and how to avoid juice-jacking About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada