https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-travelers-warned-against-usb-charging-softbank-creating-internet-giant-apple-bans-vaping-apps/424115
Hashtag Trending - Travelers warned against USB charging; SoftBank creating internet giant; Apple bans vaping apps | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Travelers warned against USB charging; SoftBank creating internet giant; Apple bans vaping apps Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: November 19th, 2019 Travelers advised not to using USB charging ports; SoftBank creating Japanese internet giant; Apple bans vaping apps. Today’s stories all find their way to us from Google. For those who travel often, the use of USB charging stations is not a foreign concept. But now, the LA County DA’s office has warned travellers against using those. This warning came from the discovery of a new scam called “juice jacking” in which bad actors are able to manipulate these charging stations through malware to cause damaging effects like locking the phone or stealing information from the device. Next up, it appears that SoftBank is putting plans into place to create a Japanese internet giant. The plan entails SoftBank combining its Yahoo Japan business with Line Corp. in a deal that values the country’s leading messaging service at 11 and a half billion dollars. The deal still requires shareholder approval and is expected to be finalized by next October. And lastly, the war on vaping continues to rage on and now Apple has joined the fight as it has announced that it is removing and banning all vaping-related apps from its app store. You may be asking yourself, what does a vaping-related app do? Well it is not for the sale of vape products, as Apple had already banned that, but it seems to be instead apps like vaping-related games and apps that can control your app from your phone. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Cyber Security Today - Medical supply firm falls for phishing, drug treatment chain patient data exposed, Americans worried about privacy and more Diversity more than just meeting numbers, everyone needs to 'go all in' says #movethedial founder About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada