https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canada-can-learn-a-lot-from-china-and-europe-when-it-comes-to-its-data-strategy-says-deloitte/419089
Canada can learn a lot from China and Europe when it comes to its data strategy, says Deloitte | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Public Sector Canada can learn a lot from China and Europe when it comes to its data strategy, says Deloitte Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: June 18th, 2019 In its quest to form a clear data strategy, Canada should find a balance between the privacy-centric model of the GDPR in Europe and the more business-favored strategy in China, according to Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited. This was one of the steps suggested by Deloitte in its recently published report about what the Canadian federal government should do to claim a top spot in the global AI ecosystem. Many have called data the new oil of business, so for Canada to be able to be viewed as a business powerhouse, it must learn to harness this data while still considering the privacy of its citizens, according to Jas Jaaj, partner at Omnia AI, Deloitte. Jaaj said a clearly defined strategy in regards to data and privacy is especially important because many of the current policies are outdated in relation to the modern world we currently live in. “What we’re seeing is that when it comes to the Canadian policy framework, most of the policies that are in effect were created before the widespread of digitization. Which leaves room for what we call operating risk and legal gray zones for businesses and citizens,” Jaaj pointed out when questioned about the current policies in place. “And it’s time now, considering where we are in the maturity of AI, to modernize them.” And he points to two specific examples of data strategies that have been successful in their own different ways: Europe and China. Jas Jaaj, partner at Omnia AI, Deloitte, says that Canada must find a middle ground for its data strategy. “We always like to strike a balance between the protection aspect of the policy versus policy being used to infuse innovation into an economy. When you look at GDPR, it’s rather stringent when it comes to how the data protection framework has been laid out… where they kind of have done an excellent job in terms of protection and the privacy aspect of it. Having said that, it’s not as optimized for infusing innovation. When you look at China, on the other hand, when it comes to their digital rights frameworks that they use, they are on the other end, where it’s probably not as well protected when it comes to their citizens as it can be but definitely sparks that innovation within the ecosystem.” And he said this is a perfect opportunity for Canada to define the middle ground between the two extremes of data strategies. “Canada has an opportunity right now to strike that right balance by learning from these different geographies,” said Jaaj. “To be able to come up with that optimal mix and then lead the globe when it comes to demonstrating how AI can be used not only to protect and safeguard the rights and values of Canadians but also use it as an innovation engine to grow the economy.” One concept suggested in the report was the idea of data trusts. In such a scenario, an independent organization would be entrusted with the data of multiple organizations (whether they be private corporations or government bodies) and would be responsible for deciding when and how to use the data entrusted to them. Beyond the privacy concerns that could be allayed through this model of “data custodians”, as he calls them, Jaaj also explained that this could lead to opportunities for collaboration between data sets that may not have been possible without a data trust. “The way in which you get the most value out of data is by combining data sets that typically don’t sit together. The trusts become a mechanism to be able to bring them together and then provide that incremental value by finding insights at the intersection of the data.” Public Sector data strategy, Deloitte, federal government, GDPR University of Waterloo opens new research center with NRC Hashtag Trending - Facebook announces cryptocurrency; Google Calendar crashes; CIA spied through smart TV’s About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Gartner says nearly half of privacy compliance technology to rely on AI by 2023 Expert says CRTC’s data plan proposals for telcos are ‘misguided’ Trudeau government pushes streaming giants to support Canadian content Deloitte’s 2020 TMT Predictions: 5G’s impact on healthcare will be significant Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada