https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/a-new-google-cloud-platform-region-to-come-to-toronto/428146
A new Google Cloud platform region to come to Toronto | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Google Cloud Platform global locations. Photo from Google Cloud Infrastructure A new Google Cloud Platform region to come to Toronto Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: March 5th, 2020 Google Cloud is building a new platform region in Toronto to support its expanding customer base in Canada, the company announced in a blog post today. It will launch with the company’s core portfolio of Google Cloud Platform products, which includes Google Kubernetes Engine, Compute Engine, BigQuery, Bigtable, App Engine, and Spanner. Complementing Google Cloud’s existing Montréal region, which was opened in 2018 – marking the company’s official arrival in Canada – the new Google Cloud Platform region in Toronto (with its three zones, similar to those in Montréal) will enable organizations across all industries and of all sizes to distribute storage and apps, safeguarding them against service disruptions. Google Cloud Platform – Montréal “Having already collaborated closely with the Google Cloud team in Montréal, where we’re headquartered, we look forward to their Toronto expansion. Google Cloud services are allowing us to bring a lower-latency travel planning and booking service to our customers. The second Canada region will allow us to extend that experience to more people around the world,” said Ken Pickering, chief technical officer of the travel-booking app, Hopper, in the blog post. Google Canada also says that the Toronto region will provide distributed, secure infrastructure to help organizations meet disaster recovery and compliance requirements, which is something that its customers have been asking for, especially e-commerce providers, financial institutions, public sector organizations, and other organizations operating in highly regulated industries. “System performance and security are critical for us…an organization that clears and settles hundreds of billions of dollars every day. Google’s new Toronto cloud region will help us continue to modernize our infrastructure, strengthen our resilience, and create a digital platform for innovation,” said Andrew McCormack, chief information officer at Payments Canada, a national payment clearing and settlement system. It leverages Google Cloud solutions like Apigee for digitization and management of its hybrid cloud environment. Expected to be completed in 2021, the Toronto region – along with three additional cloud regions that Google announced today in Melbourne, Delhi, and Doha – will add to the company’s existing 22 cloud regions and 67 zones, all becoming part of its worldwide network of secure and reliable infrastructure. Cloud, Infrastructure Google Canada, Google Cloud, Google Cloud Platform, Montreal, Payments Canada, postmedia, Toronto Hashtag Trending - Amazon bans price gougers; Twitter’s one-day tweet; HPE and AMD build a supercomputer together ISED details 3,500MHz 5G spectrum auction criterias About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada