https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-tech-giants-dabble-with-finance-wework-loses-1-25b-motorola-razr-comeback/423997
Hashtag Trending - Tech giants dabble with finance, WeWork loses $1.25B, Motorola RAZR comeback | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Tech giants dabble with finance, WeWork loses $1.25B, Motorola RAZR comeback Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: November 15th, 2019 Facebook and Google are taking a shot at the banking world, WeWork’s troubles continue as reports surface that it lost $1.25 billion in the third quarter, and it’s time to party like it’s the mid-2000s because the Motorola RAZR makes a comeback. A pair of tech giants are kicking the banking world’s door down. Facebook is launching a new online payment system spanning Messenger, Instagram, and WhatsApp, while Google says it’s planning on offering checking accounts to customers. Facebook Pay allows users to send payments, starting with Facebook and Messenger, in a swipe at Venmo. According to the Wall Street Journal, Google is expected to partner with Citigroup and a credit union at Stanford University to offer digital accounts. This might not sound that special, as many people on social media have pointed out, but of course, the real value in this strategy is the user data that Google will be able to extract. WeWork’s troubles continue. Social media is buzzing about the rapid expansion of its office-space empire and how it caused the company’s losses to more than double in the third quarter, reaching $1.25B, according to the New York Times. The office space company, which reported the figure to debt holders Wednesday, was investing heavily in expanding to new locations around the world, even adding 115,000 desks as it entered what it called “hyper-growth” mode, says Business Insider. WeWork withdrew plans to go public in late September amid concerns about its finances. And lastly, the Motorola RAZR flip phone is making a comeback. Twitter was on fire when it was discovered that the flip phone was blending the past and the future, incorporating a flexible screen with a portable design. When opened up to its full length, movies and videos look extra sharp on its ultra-wide CinemaVision display. But before you run out the door to buy one, keep in mind it costs almost two grand Canadian. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Alex Coop, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts More collaboration needed to improve national cyber resilience, says Bank of Canada exec Cyber Security Today: Phone scam at Canadians, email Post Office scam at Americans and more About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada