https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/salesforce-ceo-calls-for-heightened-regulation-and-leadership-changes-among-tech-giants/401021
Salesforce CEO calls for heightened regulation and leadership changes among tech giants | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Marc Benioff, chairman and co-chief executive officer for Salesforce, says the company is focused on partnering with as many software vendors as possible. File photo. Infrastructure Leadership Privacy & Security Public Sector Salesforce CEO calls for heightened regulation and leadership changes among tech giants Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: January 23rd, 2018 Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff called for a shift in culture among tech leaders that emphasizes trust, while calling out former Uber CEO Travis Kalanick in the process during a panel about consumer trust in the tech industry. “In this world of connected products, in the fourth industrial revolution, in this multi-stakeholders dialogue… trust has to be your highest value in your company. If it’s not, something bad is going to happen,” said Benioff, who didn’t shy away from the mic during the World Economic Forum’s opening day in Davos, Switzerland. Benioff pointed to former Uber employee Susan Fowler’s story about the sexism and bullying that was ingrained within the company’s culture. Uber was focused on fast growth, and it compromised the company to the point where users were deleting the app and even affecting Uber’s bottom line, Benioff said. “And the CEO was setting that tone from the top,” he added, referring to Kalanick. Earlier segments of the panel focused a lot on Uber, which has faced extensive criticism in the aftermath of Fowler’s story and Kalanick’s exit from the company. The recently appointed CEO of the taxi app didn’t respond directly to Benioff’s comments, except to stress the company’s new direction when it comes to trust, and how the media plays a big role in keeping leaders in the industry in line. But when confronted about the killing spree in Kalamazoo, Michigan, that allegedly involved an Uber driver, Dara Khosrowshahi said it’s important that the company is upfront about the fact that the five-star rating system their app uses is to determine how good of a driver you are, not “whether or not you’re a serial killer or not.” “Over a period of time, we can have data scientists create a platform that is safer,” Khosrowshahi said. Author Rachel Botsman, who referred to the killings in her book Who Can You Trust?: How Technology Brought Us Together and Why It Might Drive Us Apart, said that technology is creating conveniences that are “trumping trust.” “The challenge that we have is that technology wants to automate the process. On the one hand, we as consumers want that convenience and speed, but at the same time, companies have this responsibility to actually build the security and safety and trust into the technology which means it’s using a bit more friction to slow down,” Botsman said. Oversight and external regulation was also discussed, a topic Benioff had no trouble weighing in on. “When CEOs don’t take responsibility, someone has to,” he said. But it’s not that easy, as government institutions and other regulators are having trouble finding the centre of accountability, explained Botsman. “Trust used to operate in a hierarchical format. Today, it’s much more complicated… when millions, billions of users are essentially the product.” The forum continues until Jan. 26, and will include panels about the potential for rogue technologies and the long-term impact of tech on our economies. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Leadership, Privacy & Security, Public Sector Salesforce, trust, Uber, World Economic Forum Bell acknowledges data breach Hashtag Trending - Data breach at Bell Canada, most Android apps aren’t ready for GDPR, Elon Musk’s new crazy compensation plan About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft CEO says privacy is a human right, and businesses should treat it as such Ridesharing services could soon replace personal vehicles, according to Accenture study State of Salesforce report says customer satisfaction and retention primary goals for AI investments Salesforce upgrades with voice everywhere and a single source of truth Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada