https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-beware-of-email-lawsuit-scam-an-android-missed-call-con-and-hows-your-country-doing/418384
Cyber Security Today: Beware of email lawsuit scam, an Android missed call con and how's your country doing? | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today: Beware of email lawsuit scam, an Android missed call con and how’s your country doing? Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: May 27th, 2019 Beware of email lawsuit scam, an Android missed call con and how’s your country doing? Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Monday May 27th. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanda.com. It’s Memorial Day in the U.S., hope you’re having a good holiday and thanks for listening. I’ve talked before about people in companies being suckered by email messages with poisoned attachments like invoices or notices for package deliveries. Security writer Brian Krebs has found a different scam: Messages pretending to be from a law firm saying you’re being sued. It asks you to read the attached document, and says you have seven days to reply or legal action will start. This fraud campaign is being sent to 100,000 business addresses, most of them in Canada. The email purports to come from a real law firm in Connecticut, who’s email address has been spoofed. Here’s one tip-off: No law firm or government considering a lawsuit will email you. They like paper. Lawsuit threats come special delivery, not by email. A new kind of spam may be coming to Android phone users. The news site Bleeping Computer has a report that a security company has discovered a campaign that tries to trick users with a message that says “Missed call.” One version suggests you’re going to get a new iPhone, or there’s some sort of reward. The idea is to get you to click on an image or a link. Don’t fall for these scams. If you don’t know who a call is from, delete the message. Finally, some countries do a better job of filtering out malicious email than others. That’s one of the findings of a British information site called Merchant Machine. Thirty-six per cent of the email in Brazil carried malware, according to its research. Mexico was second with a rate of almost 30 per cent. By comparison, almost nine per cent of email in the U.S. was malicious, almost five per cent in China. The lowest was 3.6 per cent in the Middle East country of Oman. Still, all of the countries studied 60 per cent of their email had spam. The security industry and Internet service providers have to do better. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Collision 2019: Fully-autonomous cars coming in 20 years Security at the speed of DevOps is possible About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada