https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-u-s-healthcare-institution-stung-patch-your-mikrotik-router-and-update-drupal/407786
Cyber Security Today – U.S. healthcare institution stung, patch your MikroTik router and update Drupal | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – U.S. healthcare institution stung, patch your MikroTik router and update Drupal Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: August 7th, 2018 A phishing email leads to a health data breach, MikroTik routers need an update, and so does Drupal. Another big data breach has been caused by an employee falling for the business executive email scam. This time it happened in Iowa, where someone working at UnityPoint Health, was fooled by an email that looked like it came from an executive of the institution. The details are sketchy, but somehow the employee gave away a password, and the attacker was able to get personal data on as many as 1.4 million patients in Iowa and North Carolina. There are a couple of ways this could be done happened. One is the attacker spoofs the email address of the executive, perhaps by misspelling his name by one letter, or the name of the institution. The way you can make sure you’re not tricked is to carefully check the email address of every message you get that asks you do something. The other way is by hacking the email account of the executive, who, because of his senior position wouldn’t have access to sensitive data. So the attacker sends a message from the legitimate email account to someone lower in the company who would have access. The way you can make sure you’re not tricked by this is to be careful when anyone – even in your company – asks for your password or to go to a site and log in again with your password. Businesses and Internet providers using routers made by MikroTik are being urged to update the routers’ operating system. That’s because several worldwide malware campaigns are exploiting hundreds of thousands of unpatched routers to secretly install Coinhive cryptocurrency miners on the web pages of computers connected to them. A few days ago the Hacker News reported more than 200,000 MikroTik routers had been compromised. The bug was discovered in April and patched then, but apparently many owners or administrators have been sluggish in plugging the hole. So now it’s being exploited. Researchers at Trustwave first noticed that some 183,000 routers were exploited in Brazil. Then it spread to other countries. Made in Latvia, MikroTik routers are sold in Canada and the U.S. Devices running the RouterOS operating system can be upgraded in two clicks, says the company. Speaking of updates, if you are an IT administrator running the Drupal content management system you’ve got to install the latest software patch. It fixes a security bypass vulnerability that could allow a remote attacker to take control of your websites. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Privacy & Security cyber security today, data breach, phishing, podcasts, routers Firms have to spread responsibility for security throughout enterprise, says Accenture Scotiabank's 'PLATO' team shows its serious about technology-first approach with open source release About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada