https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-u-s-sues-scam-callers-microsofts-40-million-ai-health-care-plan-googles-new-chat-client/426693
Hashtag Trending- U.S. sues scam callers; Microsoft's $40 million AI health care plan; Google's new chat client | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending- U.S. sues scam callers; Microsoft’s $40 million AI health care plan; Google’s new chat client Tom Li @itworldca Published: January 30th, 2020 It’s a good news day in tech today. The U.S. is once again curbing annoying robocalls, Microsoft revealed a new 40 million initiative to improve healthcare in AI, and Google trying to create a beefier chat client for the workspace. Thank you for tuning in to Hashtag Trending, it’s Thursday, January 30th, and I’m your host, Tom Li Trending on Reddit, The U.S. Department of Justice has filed a massive lawsuit against five U.S. companies for scam calls. Most of these companies place the calls from India and prefer to use VoIP systems to abuse callers. According to the Justice Department, the calls, disguised as calls from government and social services, have caused “massive financial losses to elderly and vulnerable victims across the nation”. The amount of calls generated is staggering. TollFreeDeals.com, a company named in the lawsuit, placed 720 million calls in just 23 days. Trending on Google, Microsoft has launched a new $40 million initiative to fund AI in healthcare. The new funding is exclusively for non-profits and research centers. Over the course of the next five years, Microsoft will distribute the money towards enabling technologies that would help the diagnosis and treatment of deadly ailments. In addition, Microsoft would also supply the research facilities with access to their cloud tools and expert data scientists. Trending on Reddit, Google is back once again with a new instant messaging app. So far, Google has tried its hands in Allo, Hangouts, Duo, Messages as well as a number of older projects. This time though, it’s looking to harmonize Google Drive, Gmail, and Hangouts into a single platform for the office. Oh, by the way, Google will start shutting down Hangouts this year for consumers. If you’re a Gsuite subscriber, you can download the Hangouts Chat messaging client instead. For everyone else, you can transition to the Google Messages app. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Trudeau government pushes streaming giants to support Canadian content Solving common enterprise data challenges takes a collaborative approach About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada