https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-watch-your-webcam-privacy-groups-complain-about-android-apps-and-more-updates/425892
Cyber Security Today – Watch your webcam, privacy groups complain about Android apps and more updates | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – Watch your webcam, privacy groups complain about Android apps and more updates Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: January 10th, 2020 Watch your webcam, privacy groups complain about Android apps and more updates. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Friday January 10th. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanada.com. I’m not sure why people put Internet-connected video cameras inside their homes. If the webcams get hacked, they either show a criminal that no one’s home, or if there is someone there, the hacker can spy on them. I’m telling you this because a British man was sentenced to two years in jail in the U.K. this week for hacking into the webcams of women in their residences and recording what they were doing. You know that webcams have a red light indicating recording is going on. But some hacking tools are able to turn that red light off, so you won’t know it’s recording. At the very least you shouldn’t have a webcam or an open laptop connected to the Internet in your bedroom. And use strong passwords for webcams. When Google created a free mobile operating system called Android it was to fight Apple’s iOS system for iPhones. But where Apple completely controls its operating system and what goes into new phones, Google has less control. The large number of manufacturers that use Android can add a lot of apps and skins before sending phones to retailers. Some of these apps may collect and share user information without your knowledge. So this week Privacy International and 50 other organizations sent a letter to Google’s parent company demanding the giant clamp down on bad pre-installed apps by its partners. Some of these apps are made so they can’t be deleted. Separately a security company called Malwarebytes this week gave an example of bad apps. These are installed on a low-priced Unimax smartphone sold by Assurance Wireless in the U.S. for low-income people under the government’s Lifeline program. One of the offending apps is the phone’s Settings app, and is described as malware. The offending app allows the automatic installation of software without the user’s consent. The software may be safe, but it’s wrong not to ask for user consent. An additional problem is these apps can’t be removed without impairing the ability to use the phone. This problem needs to be faced. Google has to confront phone manufacturers on what they add to the stock version of Android. But also wireless carriers need to do better testing of installed apps before selling phones to customers. On Wednesday I mentioned that a new version of the Firefox browser was released earlier in the week. Well, on Thursday it was updated because of a bug. So, as of today at least, make sure you’re running version 72.0.1. IT administrators who use the security-focused version of Linux called Talis should note a new version was released this week. Version 4.2 has important fixes for vulnerabilities. Finally, do you use the TikTok video-sharing app? If so, make sure it’s on the latest version. Researchers at Check Point Software have discovered bugs that can allow an attacker to hijack your account. The latest version of the app has security updates that prevent that from happening. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Hashtag Trending - Political ads on Facebook, TikTok vulnerability, awful photoshop job goes viral Hashtag Trending - AI goes Hollywood, Twitter’s new reply rules, old vs new on the farm About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada