https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-gmail-adds-scheduling-new-tsa-tech-new-robot-helps-disabled/416500
Hashtag Trending – Gmail adds scheduling; New TSA tech; New robot helps disabled | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Managed Services & Outsourcing Hashtag Trending – Gmail adds scheduling; New TSA tech; New robot helps disabled Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: April 2nd, 2019 Gmail adds email scheduling, finally, the TSA introduces new scanning tech, meaning laptops stay in bags, and a video of a robot helping the disabled goes viral. Gmail is turning 15 years old, which means it’s time for another slew of minor updates for social media to talk about. In addition to some vague enhancements to Smart Compose, which Google says “can now adapt to the way you write”, one of the more straightforward updates includes the ability to schedule messages. Users will notice an arrow next to the “Send” button, which when clicked on, offers the option to choose from presets such as “tomorrow morning” or a specific time and date. It only took 15 years, but we can finally get a head start on next morning’s email management the night before. Reddit users are excited about the Transportation Security Administration’s (TSA) latest announcement. The TSA is rolling out new technology this summer, which can create 3D images of bags’ contents and detect items automatically that the TSA now asks passengers to remove. Bloomberg is reporting that the TSA signed a $97 million contract last week that will buy 300 machines, but the list of airports receiving them has not been made final. The agency says it tested the new technology at more than a dozen airports since 2017, and it wants to replace more than 2,000 X-ray machines with the new CT equipment over the next eight years. While the new machines have showed promise when it comes to automatically identifying certain items, Bloomberg says the CT pilot program didn’t show reduced wait times at the participating airports. And lastly, a video on LinkedIn of a robot helping a disabled person is quickly making its way around. Researchers at Georgia Tech and Emory University have developed a robot prototype that allows people with severe motor impairments to complete manual tasks with a few simple head or eye movements and a few clicks of a button. The web-based interface shows the “robot’s eye view” of its surroundings. Users interact with the world through the machine’s lens. The results of the robot’s work were published recently, and it says people with profound motor deficits can greatly benefit from a robotic body surrogate at home and in remote locations. One participant, the report says, operated the robotic body surrogate in a home setting over a seven-day period with limited assistance. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Careers, Managed Services & Outsourcing hashtag trending, LinkedIn, podcasts, Reddit Get meaningful consent when collecting voter data, federal parties told Complaints continued to rise in 2018, wireless service is biggest culprit, according to CCTS About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada