https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/unlocking-the-value-of-data-a-tricky-bit-of-business-indeed/423465
Unlocking the value of data:  A tricky bit of business indeed | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Big Data & Analytics Unlocking the value of data: A tricky bit of business indeed Mark Perrin @itworldca Published: November 1st, 2019 With previously unimaginable amounts of data now being created at a blistering pace, attendees at a recent Calgary roundtable agreed it’s going to take “imagination” to get maximum value from it. “We are moving to a hybrid world where there is not going to be one answer for everyone,” said Robert Adley, Vice President of Solutions and Technology for Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE). “Infrastructure and data are going from the edge to the core and on to the cloud. We need to have the right data and applications in the right place and learn how to leverage them.” The IT manager in the airline industry concurred, offering an example of the airline installing and monitoring different systems on each of the company’s aircraft. “Emergency type exceedances were transmitted immediately by satellite and other flight data was uploaded when the aircraft landed,” he explained. “The applications on the aircraft process the data on the aircraft in real time. The airline was surprised to see how the pilots’ behaviour changed once the monitoring began.” For the Director at an educational institution, creating value from data is characterized by thinking of data consumers as either farmers or explorers. The farmers are happy to harvest value from existing reports. Explorers like working with data and require different tools and a safe data environment in order to work with and find value in data. What could possibly go wrong? Security around the increasing volume of data prompted considerable discussion among a cross-section of the representatives from the oil and gas, aviation, education, hospitality, construction, and logistics sectors. An IT leader in the hospitality industry spoke of a hacking incident that impacted 300 restaurants for a week. That was a huge financial hit and a wakeup call. What’s the weakest link? Usually, end users clicking a malicious link. The CIO of a logistics company, who had also been hacked, said it’s ironic that the hackers, who encrypt data and then demand ransom, often have better customer support than the organizations they are hacking. For participants whose responsibilities included managing personal data, data governance and new regulatory challenges were clearly on their minds. The conversation revealed that the term ‘data governance’ meant something different to each person. As well, there was no common data governance model. Participants agreed that there should be a distinction between data ownership and data stewardship, with the company owning the data and the staff acting as stewards. When to discard data became a point of another conversation thread. The IT lead for oil company talked about collecting 14,000 data points at a gas plant every 10 seconds for 12 years. People at the plant didn’t know why they were collecting it until it was explained it could be used to predict equipment failures. The cost to store that volume of data is now small and the benefit is huge. The roundtable ended with the recognition that no one is alone in this new data-driven economy. “We face a common set of challenges across industries and everyone has some wisdom to share,” said Shane Guidinger, HPE Director for Western Canada. “As an aggregator of this wisdom, HPE can help our customers in their quest to extract more value from their data.” Related Download Sponsor: IBM Digital Reinvention in action: What to do and how to make it happen Register Now Big Data & Analytics data governance, hpe, security New deal with Sidewalk Labs a huge win, says Waterfront Toronto’s privacy consultant Hashtag Trending - Uber Freight comes to Canada, Netflix wants to speed up shows, iPhone sales tank About Mark Perrin Mark is a senior engineer with broad technical experience and skills. He enriches that with leadership experience and excellent people skills. He has contributed through business analysis, project management, end-user support, software development and as the leader of groups of professionals. Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity How to stonewall the hackers trying to to get around your MFA Why pizza party security training doesn’t cut it anymore U.S. indicts four Chinese military members for 2017 Equifax breach Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada