https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/intel-details-ponte-vecchio-graphics-processor/424122
Intel details 'Ponte Vecchio' graphics processor | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Intel details ‘Ponte Vecchio’ graphics processor Tom Li @itworldca Published: November 19th, 2019 Intel has released product details for its first true graphics processor. Based on Intel’s Xe microarchitecture, the new general-purpose graphics processing unit (GPGPU) is code-named “Ponte Vecchio”, borrowing from the name of the oldest bridge in Florence. As opposed to churning out mind-blowing frame rates in video games, Ponte Vecchio has been designed for AI training, HPC modelling, and simulation workloads. Its targeted use cases include data centres, AI development, and scientific research. Ponte Vecchio will debut as a showcase product for Intel’s 7nm transistors. It features a number of new technologies including Foveros 3D packaging technology, which minimizes footprint by stacking components on top of one another, and embedded multi-die interconnect bridge, a technology that allows layers of components to communicate through the stack. This isn’t Intel’s first venture into the dedicated graphics scene. Back in 2010, Intel dabbed into the graphics scene with the Larrabee microarchitecture. The project was ultimately shelved as it fell short of expectations. Much of the research product from developing Larrabee was carried over to Xeon Phi, a co-processor produced in limited quantities. The Aurora system at Argonne National Laboratory will be the first U.S. exascale system to tap into Intel’s new hardware. It will feature two 10nm-based “Sapphire Rapids” Intel Xeon processors and six Ponte Vecchio GPUs. Aurora supports up to 10 petabytes of memory and 230 petabytes of storage. All the nodes will be connected using the Cray Slingshot interconnect, an ultra-high-speed network backbone that links together over 200 nodes. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure gpu, Intel, Ponte Vecchio, postmedia Diversity more than just meeting numbers, everyone needs to 'go all in' says #movethedial founder Microsoft says Teams has hit 20 million daily users About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada