https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/august-1-apple-pivots-netflix-is-going-hollywood-bernie-unveils-net-neutrality-plan/420526
Hashtag Trending – Apple pivots, Netflix is going Hollywood, Bernie unveils net neutrality plan | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Apple pivots, Netflix is going Hollywood, Bernie unveils net neutrality plan Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: August 1st, 2019 This episode is brought to you by ServiceNow – Transforming old manual ways of working into modern digital workflows and unlocking productivity for employees and the enterprise. Apple is doubling down on its service business amid slumping product sales, Netflix is spending hundreds of millions to create big budget films, and presidential hopeful Bernie Sanders explains how he would reinstate net neutrality if elected president. Trending on LinkedIn is the news that Apple’s service business is performing well, while its product business is not. Apple’s product sales have slid backwards for three straight quarters, but revenue from news, music and TV subscriptions rose by more than 12 per cent from a year earlier. Smartphone sales accounted for less than half of Apple’s revenue for the first time since 2012, leading to Apple’s profit dropping by 13 per cent. People are pointing to the fact that consumers are hanging on to their phones for longer, and competition from China, are some of the reasons why consumers are no longer salivating at the sight of new Apple products. $999 monitor stands certainly don’t help either. You forgot about that didn’t you? Moving on, also trending on LinkedIn is the news that Netflix is spending over $520 million to create 3 big-budget films. The Wall Street Journal reports a Dwayne Johnson action movie “Red Notice,” Michael Bay’s “6 Underground” and Martin Scorsese’s “The Irishman” are in the works. Movies bring in roughly one-third of the streaming giant’s viewership. After revealing that it lost U.S. subscribers for the first time in nearly a decade earlier this summer, it’s clear why this decision was made. And lastly, Bernie Sanders wants to nominate commissioners to the Federal Communications Commission that will reinstate net neutrality rules. Sanders, who is vying for the Democratic nomination to run against President Donald Trump in 2020, has made it known for sometime that he’s a vocal supporter of net neutrality, which was axed in 2017 by the FCC The news got hundreds of Redditors talking online, and many are saying that Bernie’s statement sounds like a great campaign promise, but greater steps should be taken to ensure net neutrality doesn’t disappear at the whims of whoever is heading the FCC. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts FedDev Ontario announces $3M investment in Ottawa networking firm Intel announces full 10th gen 'Ice Lake' processor launch lineup About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada