https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-twitter-employees-charged-for-spying-sanders-calls-for-facebook-breakup-video-game-curfew-in-china/423821
Hashtag Trending – Twitter employees charged for spying; Sanders calls for Facebook breakup; Video game curfew in China | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Twitter employees charged for spying; Sanders calls for Facebook breakup; Video game curfew in China Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: November 8th, 2019 Two Twitter employees have been charged in spying scandal; Bernie Sanders calls for the breakup of Facebook; China implements a video game curfew for minors Two former Twitter employees and a Saudi national have been charged with helping the Saudi government spy on dissidents in the country, and it is trending on Google. The criminal complaint says that the two employees used their credentials to gain access to the profiles of individuals that the Saudi royal family found of interest. While Twitter has said its mission is to prevent such uses of its platforms, it is being sued by one of the victims of this incident, who claims that Twitter failed to notify him or prevent it from happening. In the wake of internal documents from Facebook that were released by NBC news on Wednesday, Bernie Sanders is calling for the breakup of the tech giant, and it is trending on Reddit. The documents, which show the manner in which Facebook leverages user data as a bargaining chip with external app developers, included internal Facebook emails, web chats, notes, presentations, and spreadsheets. Are you a parent who cannot get your kids to cut down on their video game time? Well if you live in China, your prayers have been answered. The country has implemented a video game curfew for people under 18, and it is trending on LinkedIn. The curfew will prevent minors from playing between the hours of 10 pm and 8 am. As well, weekday playing time will be limited to 90 minutes a day and there will be an in game spending limit. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Clir appoints former Bench Accounting and Hootsuite director as CTO Cyber Security Today - Email scams in Canada, the UK and Japan, new ransomware and online holiday shopping advice About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada