https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/speed-ramp-to-the-cloud-attention-government-it-leaders/411064
Speed ramp to the cloud: Attention government IT leaders | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Digital Transformation Public Sector Speed ramp to the cloud: Attention government IT leaders Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: October 30th, 2018 It’s not exactly the best of times for government IT leaders. Budgets are flat, and the culture around them is one of risk aversion and informational silos. Even so, government IT departments are expected to hit all their marks and more, and to demonstrate accountability and a nice return on investment. Reality comes in many ugly forms, such as sluggish, outdated processes and an infrastructure that simply doesn’t cut it. This strains IT’s ability to deliver within budget, and work as efficiently as today’s agile climate demands. If you have already made a VMware investment, there are new opportunities on the horizon. If you’re looking for an easy way to provide additional capacity, add disaster recovery (DR) capabilities, or rapidly migrate your workloads out of your existing datacenters, you’ll want to take a long look at the VMware infrastructure stack, available in Canada in the new year. On December 6th, join ITWC CIO Jim Love and AWS Senior Solution Architect Haider Witwit for “Your Speed Ramp to Cloud: What Government IT Leaders Need to Know.” In this session, Love and Witwit will discuss the rich new capabilities that will allow governments to: Move, run, and protect production applications at scale Extend on-prem datacenters to the cloud, and Gain access to a DR service “Your Speed Ramp to Cloud” will be of interest to municipal, provincial, federal, or crown corporation IT managers and directors regardless of where they are in their cloud journey. If VMware is part of your architecture, and you’re interested in getting more out of cloud as you continue to leverage the technologies you trust, this webinar is for you. Please note: this webinar falls into the “sneak peek” category and is available to a limited audience only. Register now Cloud, Digital Transformation, Public Sector AWS, DR, VMWare Apple updates iPad Pro, MacBook Air, MacBook Mini - what you need to know 5 lessons from new technology leaders: Alex Benay, CIO of the Government of Canada About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hybrid AWS Outposts ‘a great option’ for manufacturing, healthcare, says AWS director VMware acquires Nyansa to improve SD-WAN capabilities BlackBerry adds Cylance to QNX, announces partnerships with AWS, Damon, and Renovo AWS makes machine learning fun Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada