https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-apple-lawsuit-iphone-production-bounces-back-new-spotify-subscription/428044
Hashtag Trending – Apple lawsuit, iPhone production bounces back, new Spotify subscription | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Apple lawsuit, iPhone production bounces back, new Spotify subscription Tom Li @itworldca Published: March 4th, 2020 Apple will be paying a hefty sum for intentionally throttling iPhones, but its device production is slowly recovering in China. Also, Spotify launches an interesting couples subscription for two people. It’s all the tech news that’s popular right now. Welcome to Hashtag Trending! It’s Wednesday, March 4, and I’m your host, Alex Coop. Apple will be paying $500 million to settle its iPhone throttling class-action lawsuit. Each owner of an affected iPhone will receive $25. The lawsuit, which has created a stir on Reddit once again, erupted in 2017 after iPhone users found out that iOS was limiting processor performance as the battery lost its capacity over time. By reducing the processor speed, the degraded battery would last longer at reduced performance. The problem was that Apple never publicly announced this tactic, leading many to believe that their phones were simply becoming obsolete. More chatter on Google, this time about Foxconn – Apple’s iPhone manufacturer – saying that it would be back to full seasonal capacity by the end of the month after the coronavirus quarantine in China. China’s production is still recovering from dormancy, but Foxconn told investors Tuesday that it has already returned to 50 per cent of seasonal capacity. With that said, Foxconn noted that “some demands will be pushed out to later of this year.” Trending on Google, Spotify has launched a new premium plan for couples in Canada. The new $13 plan sits in between the $10 individual plan and the $15 family plan. It saves a toonie for couples per month, but upgrading to the family plan allows six family members to share premium. As always, the only requirement is that all participants will need to be living at the same address. We’ll have to wait and see how well it will sell. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Alex Coop, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Canada among most secure countries, according to Comparitech's 2020 cybersecurity rankings B.C. district of Squamish hit by ransomware About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada