https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/linkedin-launches-skills-assessment-to-allow-users-to-verify-their-skills/421907
LinkedIn launches Skills Assessment to allow users to verify their skills | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Digital Transformation LinkedIn launches Skills Assessment to allow users to verify their skills Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: September 17th, 2019 LinkedIn Corp. has launched a new feature that it says will bring some verification to the skills that users list on their profiles. The new feature is called Skills Assessment, and it allows users to take short multiple-choice tests focused on the field of expertise they have listed on their profile to show prospective employers that they are verified for that skill. An earlier beta test was run, and according to LinkedIn, it resulted in over 2 million tests being taken, but now the feature is being rolled out globally. As of the initial release, there will be English-language tests available in 75 different skill fields, with a plan to ramp up the number of languages and skill sets available in the near future, said Emrecan Dogan, the group product manager in LinkedIn’s talent solutions division. These tests are apparently being written by experts in the respective fields. It is possible that LinkedIn could look to leverage its LinkedIn Learning feature, which recently began featuring third-party content, to create future tests. This is not the first time that LinkedIn, which is owned by Microsoft Corp., has dabbled in a test-taking feature. Several years ago in India they had a feature which allowed users to take tests to help the system determine the best job suggestions for them. Careers, Digital Transformation LinkedIn Green Party government will allow only those with 'verifiable identities' to post on social media HP Elite Dragonfly hands-on review: style and productivity in one package About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Jeff Weiner to step down as LinkedIn CEO Hashtag Trending – Google drops tablets; Amazon leases more planes, Samsung wants Apple to pay fine Hashtag Trending – Apple WWDC; Major outages for Google; Doctors battles fake news Hashtag Trending – Canadians distrust social media; Super Micro moves production; Amazon’s delivery network dominates Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada