https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canada-ranked-2nd-in-world-for-tech-adoption-by-cisco-falling-behind-in-other-areas/426307
Canada ranked 2nd in world for tech adoption by Cisco, falling behind in other areas | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Infrastructure Public Sector Canada ranks 2nd globally for tech adoption, says Cisco report, but fails to crack top 10 for basic needs and infrastructure Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: January 21st, 2020 Cisco Systems released its 2019 Digital Readiness Index rankings and while Canada ranked second in the world in tech adoption, it did not do as well in other key areas. Cisco’s Digital Readiness Index is a score out of 25 and is compiled through the use of seven categories: basic needs, business and government investment, ease of doing business, human capital, start-up environment, technology adoption, and technology infrastructure. Canada ranked highly in technology adoption (2nd) and human capital (6th) but failed to crack the top 10 in basic needs (17th), technology infrastructure (18th), ease of doing business (18th), business and government investment (20th), and start-up environment (26th). The average score of the 141 countries included was 11.90 out of 25. Canada garnered a score of 17.33. The top 10 rankings of Cisco’s Digital Readiness Index. Credit: Cisco Systems The U.S. ranked highly, placing third with an overall score of 19.03. America’s high ranking was the result of high scores across the board, but it ranked 32nd for basic needs. Some other expected high rankers included the United Kingdom and Germany at 13 and 14, respectively. On the other side of the scale, China ranked rather poorly, placing 54th with an overall score of 13.22. The major detriments to China’s ranking were placing 117th in business & government investment and 83rd in technology adoption. Singapore and Luxembourg ended up topping the list in overall digital readiness coming in at 1st and 2nd, respectively. Tae Yoo, the company’s senior vice-president of corporate affairs, wrote about the Index in a recent whitepaper and broke down the need for some of the categories that may not stand out as obvious factors. “To uncover key insights and build our understanding of what it means for a country to be digitally ready, a holistic model was created that includes components beyond technology, such as basic needs, human capital development, and the business and start-up environment,” said Yoo. “Although having access to technology and the infrastructure to support digital technologies is critical, if individuals’ basic needs are not met, such as access to clean drinking water, or they lack education or job opportunities-a country cannot fully take advantage of digital opportunities. This holistic model allows for an understanding of a country’s level of digital readiness and what interventions and investments could help countries advance in their readiness.” Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Infrastructure, Public Sector Cisco, Cisco Systems, Digital Readiness Index New report says Windows' EFS encryption could be leveraged by ransomware Cyber Security Today - Kids clothes site hacked, a new phony email extortion scam and be careful with Internet Explorer About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cisco commits $225 million to COVID-19 response Cisco leadership undergoes another shuffle involving Amy Chang and David Goeckeler In response to COVID-19, Cisco is handing out free 90-day Webex business licenses RSA Conference: Democratize security, says Cisco official, and McAfee urges work on quantum-resistant solutions Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada