https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-stern-warning-from-snowden-zoom-concerns-amazon-seeks-donations/429014
Hashtag Trending - Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Staff @itworldca Published: March 27th, 2020 Edward Snowden issues a strong warning about surveillance in the wake of COVID-19, people are figuring out that Zoom shares data with Facebook even if users don’t have an account with the social media platform, and Amazon solicits public donations to pay workers’ sick leave. Snowden warns: The surveillance states we’re creating now will outlast the coronavirus from technology Former CIA contractor Edward Snowden isn’t happy about governments using high-tech surveillance measures to combat the coronavirus outbreak. “When we see emergency measures passed, particularly today, they tend to be sticky,” Snowden said in an interview with the Copenhagen International Documentary Film Festival. Proposals to monitor the outbreak by tracking mobile phone location data, for example, will become a tempting tool to track criminals and terrorists, says Snowden. Artificial intelligence tools are also in high demand right now to help facilitate some of the tracking that’s taking place, and Snowden says he’s worried about security services adding AI to all the other surveillance tech they have. In the end, Snowden says he doesn’t dispute the severity of the pandemic but hopes the solutions to curb the spread of the virus will come from vaccines and developments in the medical community, not mass surveillance. Zoom iOS App Sends Data to Facebook Even if You Don’t Have a Facebook Account from technology You’ve probably used Zoom a few times in recent weeks. Video conferencing software Zoom has exploded in popularity ever since businesses worldwide transitioned to remote work, but Reddit is really chatty today about how the iOS version of the Zoom app is sending some analytics data to Facebook, even if Zoom users don’t have a Facebook account. The story broke in Motherboard this week and highlights how upon downloading and opening the app, Zoom connects to Facebook’s Graph API. The Graph API is the main way developers get data in or out of Facebook. Zoom’s policy says the company may collect user’s “Facebook profile information (when you use Facebook to log-in to our Products or to create an account for our Products),” but doesn’t explicitly mention anything about sending data to Facebook on Zoom users who don’t have a Facebook account at all. Amazon soliciting public donations to pay workers’ sick leave from technology And lastly, there’s still a ton of anger over Amazon’s latest request for donations to pay its workers’ sick leave. Amazon’s large contract workforce, specifically, does not get any sick leave at all from Amazon even if they test positive for COVID-19. Instead, these workers must apply to the “Amazon Relief Fund” and apply for a grant to cover their sick leave. Amazon donated $25 million to the fund and is soliciting individual donations to add to the pot. It initially included an option to donate by text. But Reddit has been quick to ask, why a company owned by the richest man in the world is asking for donations instead of just covering their workers’ itself? That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Some Ontario beer chain outlets forced to use cash-only after cyber attack Think multi-factor authentication can’t be hacked? Think again Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Cyber Security Today – The latest news on COVID-19 scams, and how GE was victimized when a supplier was hacked Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada