https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-jeff-bezos-phone-hack-microsoft-exposes-customer-data-new-budget-iphone/426393
Hashtag Trending – Jeff Bezos phone hack; Microsoft exposes customer data; New budget iPhone | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Jeff Bezos phone hack; Microsoft exposes customer data; New budget iPhone Tom Li @itworldca Published: January 23rd, 2020 Today’s top story further proves that data theft can happen to anyone. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos had his data lifted from his phone. Furthermore, Microsoft exposed 250 million customer service records to the internet. But hey, a budget iPhone is coming soon, so that’s nice, right? Thank you for tuning in to Hashtag Trending, it’s Thursday, January 23rd, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending everywhere, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos faced our worst digital nightmare: having data stolen from the smartphone. After receiving a video on Facebook’s WhatsApp from Saudi Prince Mohammed bin Salman, Bezos’ phone started to transmit gigabytes of data over a few months. While a Saudi official denied involvement by the Saudi government, the Washington Post, a publication owned by Bezos, said that the Saudi government gained access to info lifted from Bezos’ phone. At this time, the security team leading the investigation doesn’t claim to have conclusive evidence. Trending on Reddit, Microsoft exposed almost 250 million customer service records to the open internet without a password. The culprit is a misconfigured security policy. Over the course of 25 days, the databases–which contained email, IP address, locations had more–were available for anyone who wanted to take a peek. Microsoft locked down the databases after being informed by a U.K. security firm and is investigating whether they’ve been accessed by a third party. It’s also informing all customers affected in the breach. Trending on Reddit, Apple is readying a new budget iPhone for production in February. The new budget iPhone is expected to launch in March. According to rumours, the budget iPhone will bring back some features from the 2017 iPhone 8, including a physical home button and a 4.7-inch screen. With that said, it should have the same processor as current-gen iPhone 11s, which should bring it up to speed with today’s performance standards. The most anticipated feature-pricing-has yet to be determined. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcast VMware acquires Nyansa to improve SD-WAN capabilities Mastercard opens global cybersecurity centre in Vancouver About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Hashtag Trending – Gates says US botched COVID-19 response; Snopes overwhelmed; Plague Inc. flips the script Hashtag Trending – 3D-printed ventilators; Drones yell at people to stay indoors; Banning targeted ads Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada