https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-facebooks-new-business-venture-it-safeguards-from-elections-canada-ubers-new-safety-system/421979
Hashtag Trending - Facebook's new business venture, IT safeguards from Elections Canada, Uber's new safety system | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Leadership Privacy & Security Public Sector Hashtag Trending – Facebook’s new business venture, IT safeguards from Elections Canada, Uber’s new safety system Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Published: September 19th, 2019 Facebook is hoping to replace your smartphone with smart glasses, Elections Canada beefs up IT security ahead of October 21st, and Uber is set to launch a new safety system for riders and drivers. First up from Reddit is Facebook’s next business venture – smart glasses that aim to replace smartphones. CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s interest in augmented reality glasses has been pretty well covered since 2016 and new reports say at least one project is now in the works. Facebook’s Reality Labs is allegedly teaming up with RayBan sunglasses to create a device with a small screen that would let users take calls, livestream with friends, and show other information. User input would apparently be handled by a voice assistant being developed by the same team. Reports say the tech giant is aiming for sometime between 2023 and 2025 to have these smart glasses ready for consumers. Next up from Twitter is potentially reassuring news about the upcoming Canadian federal election. The head of Canada’s elections agency says he is confident in the security measures the organization has taken to safeguard the election – which includes “considerable” improvements to IT infrastructure. This comes after recent cases of foreign interference in elections in countries like the U.S. It’s been a hot topic as of late for obvious reasons. Elections Canada says it’s worked closely with security agencies and other federal departments to prepare the necessary infrastructure. It’s new social media monitoring unit is also working to shut down the spread of misinformation online. And last but not least from Reddit again is a new feature from Uber that will be coming to Canada soon. RideCheck utilizes the GPS, accelerometer, gyroscope, and other sensors inside a smartphone to detect trip irregularities, like a vehicle crash or an unexpected long stop. The safety system will then send a notification to both riders and drivers asking if everything is okay, which leads to a list of possible answers – including the option to call 911 or Uber’s safety hotline. When the feature is triggered, Uber can verify that there’s been an accident and reach out to ensure everyone is safe. After a year of piloting, RideCheck is officially live in the U.S. this week and will be expanded to other countries shortly. You can learn more on Uber’s website. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership, Privacy & Security, Public Sector Election, Facebook, government, hashtag trending, podcasts, security, smart glasses, smartphone, Uber AppDirect announces a partnership with Google, among other announcements at AppDirect Engage Scotiabank source code, credentials found open on GitHub: news report About Mandy Kovacs Mandy is a lineup editor at CTV News. A former staffer at IT World Canada, she's now contributing as a part-time podcast host on Hashtag Trending. She is a Carleton University journalism graduate with extensive experience in the B2B market. When not writing about tech, you can find her active on Twitter following political news and sports, and preparing for her future as a cat lady. Follow Follow @MandyVKovacs on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada