https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-dec-21-2018-watch-those-links-human-errors-and-update-microsoft-internet-explorer/413233
Cyber Security Today: Dec. 21, 2018 — Watch those links, human errors and update Microsoft Internet Explorer | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today: Dec. 21, 2018 — Watch those links, human errors and update Microsoft Internet Explorer Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: December 21st, 2018 Watch those links in email, two cases of human errors embarrass major companies and make sure you update Microsoft Internet Explorer. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Friday December 21st. To hear the podcast click on the arrow below: I often warn listeners about possible malicious documents attached to email messages. But criminals also use malicious links. That’s one of the messages from a warning issued this week by a company called Menlo Security. It’s been following a malware campaign aimed at employees of banks and financial services mainly in the U.S. and the United Kingdom. The message in the email tries to convince staff to go to the link to fetch an invoice or a bank slip or some other excuse. The subject line may use the word “Confirmation” or “Transfer.” Click on the link and malware is downloaded that starts a process to let an attacker infiltrate the company network. So please, read email slowly, consider where it comes from before you click. There’s been an ‘oops’ moment for a big company. This time it was Amazon’s turn to be embarrassed. According to the Reuters news agency, a man in Germany asked Amazon to let him listen to back recordings from his Alexa speaker. Instead of getting access to his own recordings he was sent a link to 1,700 audio files recorded by someone else. Human error, said Amazon, which apologized. And in Australia, Woolworths, the parent company of discount retailer Big W admitted to an oops because an employee earlier this year included some print-outs for a customer to prove their printer had been repaired. What was on the sheets was the personal information on 32 other people. This came out in a report from the privacy commissioner. Human error, said Woolworths, which has strengthened its policies, and apologized. Finally, Are you still using Microsoft’s Internet Explorer browser? Make sure it’s updated. On Thursday Microsoft had to issue a quick security update to patch a critical bug. Affected are Internet Explorer versions 9, 10 and 11. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Why we can't ignore the 'Save PIAC' campaign Hashtag Trending - Gatwick’s drone delays, in Russia AI hears you, LG’s clear TV About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada