https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-google-eats-its-vegetables-visa-explains-libra-concerns-spotify-doubles-down-on-podcasts/427019
Hashtag Trending - Google eats its vegetables, Visa explains Libra concerns, Spotify doubles down on podcasts | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Google eats its vegetables, Visa explains Libra concerns, Spotify doubles down on podcasts Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: February 7th, 2020 Google is engineering a way to encourage its employees to eat healthier, Mastercard’s CEO says he withdrew from Facebook’s Libra because Libra’s leaders wouldn’t commit to observing laws, and Spotify doubles down on podcast content. Over the past five years, Google has used its well-known free food perk to create the largest real-world test of how to push people to make healthier mealtime choices. The results according to a recent story published by OneZero are impressive. In the kitchens of Google’s New York offices alone, which feed more than 10,000 people daily, the company serves 2,300 breakfast salads every day, up from zero two years ago. Additionally, water consumption has jumped sharply despite soda consumption remaining flat at an average of 20 cans per person per year. A lot of people on Twitter are wondering how the strategy could be replicated outside of Google’s offices. ‘This doesn’t sound right’: Mastercard’s CEO ditched Facebook’s Libra after multiple red flags from technology Trending on Reddit is Mastercard’s CEO comments on why he ditched Facebook’s Libra. In an interview with the Financial Times, he says the decision was made because of compliance concerns around monetization, and the social-media titan’s plan to insert itself into transactions. Ajay Banga says he signed up Mastercard to support Facebook’s digital currency and network but dropped out together with Visa, eBay, PayPal last fall. One reason was Libra’s leaders wouldn’t commit to abiding by laws around knowing their clients, money laundering, and data management, he told the newspaper. And lastly, Spotify says it’s agreed to buy podcast network The Ringer, another sign of the Swedish streaming giant’s push into general audio content and digital media after a string of other podcast purchases in recent years. Founded by former ESPN commentator Bill Simmons, The Ringer has more than 30 podcasts, as well as a website covering sports and popular culture. The move is a continuation of Spotify’s buying spree of podcast companies, having spent roughly $400 million last year for Gimlet Media, Anchor and Parcast. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Alex Coop, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Google announces startup accelerator in Waterloo and new office in Toronto Microsoft for Startups launches in Ottawa About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada