https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-an-unlikely-team-up-cool-office-perks-jack-gets-hacked/421456
Hashtag Trending – An unlikely team-up, cool office perks, Jack gets hacked | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Hashtag Trending – An unlikely team-up, cool office perks, Jack gets hacked Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: September 3rd, 2019 Alphabet teams up with the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan, are office perks still cool, and Twitter CEO’s gets hacked. Alphabet has teamed up with the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan to create an infrastructure company? That’s right, dubbed Sidewalk Infrastructure Partners, the new company is focused on investing in “technology-enabled infrastructure” such as advanced mobility, energy, waste, water, and digital infrastructure. The trending news comes after Alphabet’s subsidiary Sidewalk Labs unveiled its master plan for Toronto’s waterfront smart city project. Waterfront Toronto continues to evaluate the proposal for Quayside and the eastern waterfront, which includes a $1.3-billion spending commitment from the company and has been met with plenty of criticism over data collection. Ping pong, arcade machines, and other office perks have been around for the last decade, mostly in tech companies, hoping to add a little extra sizzle to the workplace and attract the next generation of workers. But people on LinkedIn are pointing to an article in the Financial Times that says the staying power of these often expensive fringe benefits due to various factors, including an economic downturn and a shift in what really matters to employees. But a lot of people are also saying these perks are proven to increase productivity and that they aren’t going anywhere unless they actually lead to poor work output. And lastly, trending everywhere is the news that Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey’s account on his own platform appeared to have been hacked recently after his page began posting a stream of racist messages. An official Twitter corporate account tweeted Friday that they were aware that Jack’s account was compromised and that an investigation was pending. As of this recording, no further information was available. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech hashtag trending, podcasts Cyber Security Today - Where to find cyber security and privacy resources Thousands of Supermicro servers vulnerable to remote attack, says security vendor About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada