https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-hackers-work-interrupted-zoom-update-removes-facebook-code-internet-strain/429107
Hashtag Trending - Hackers' work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Staff @itworldca Published: March 30th, 2020 Social distancing ruins a group of hackers’ cyberattack plans, Zoom removes the code that sends data to Facebook after everyone pointed it out, and there’s no shortage of chatter about the increased strain the internet is experiencing right now. A major Chinese cyberattack on American companies screeched to a halt during China’s coronavirus lockdown, apparently because the state-sponsored hackers couldn’t work from home from technology Apparently COVID-19 is disrupting the work of hackers. A story from Business Insider about a group of hackers in China has caught fire on Reddit. Apparently, a major Chinese cyberattack on American companies was ground to a halt during China’s coronavirus lockdown because the state-sponsored hackers couldn’t work from home. The APT41 group of Chinese hackers, also known as Double Dragon, reportedly logged into a server connected to American companies and set up a “backdoor” potentially leading to what experts describe as the broadest corporate hacking attempts in years. Then something weird strange occurred – nothing happened. For weeks. Cybersecurity firm FireEye that monitored APT41’s progress said the pause in activity was likely due to the COVID-19 quarantine measures in China. Zoom Removes Code That Sends Data to Facebook from technology Days after Motherboard reported on how Zoom shares data with Facebook even if Zoom users don’t have a Facebook account, Zoom pulled a 180. The video conferencing giant issued an update to its iOS app which stops it from sending certain pieces of data to Facebook. In a statement to Motherboard, Zoom said “Zoom takes its users’ privacy extremely seriously. We originally implemented the ‘Login with Facebook’ feature using the Facebook SDK in order to provide our users with another convenient way to access our platform. However, we were recently made aware that the Facebook SDK was collecting unnecessary device data.” And lastly, LinkedIn is buzzing about the added strain the internet is suddenly experiencing. Video-conferencing tools, office messaging apps and enterprise software are booming in popularity as businesses implement strict working-from-home policies due to the coronavirus. Connectivity software from Zoom, Slack, Microsoft Teams and Google Cloud’s G Suite has shown some of their largest increases in users ever in recent weeks. Meanwhile, internet service providers like TekSavvy are being forced to increase their subscription fees just to keep up. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Sales vs. Marketing: Why can’t we be friends? Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Cyber Security Today – The latest news on COVID-19 scams, and how GE was victimized when a supplier was hacked Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada