https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canadas-former-cio-joins-kpmg-as-a-partner/423766
Canada's former CIO joins KPMG as a partner | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Alex Benay is joining KPMG as a partner in its Ottawa office. Artificial Intelligence Public Sector Canada’s former CIO joins KPMG as a partner Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: November 7th, 2019 Alex Benay, who left his role as the CIO for the Canadian government just a few months ago, has joined KPMG Canada as a partner for its digital and government solutions . Benay, who joined Ottawa-based AI startup Mindbridge upon departing his government role in August, will be working out of KPMG’s Ottawa office and primarily working with the company’s public sector clients to implement technology solutions like artificial intelligence, blockchain, data security and privacy, digital identifications, digital integrity and assurance, and cloud computing. Benay worked for two and a half years as Canada’s CIO and will remain in an advisory capacity at Mindbridge, after serving as its chief client officer for the three months he was with the firm, according to a press release. “Alex has incredible energy and drive, a wealth of digital knowledge and experience, and a deep understanding of the challenges and opportunities facing Canada’s public sector,” said Elio Luongo, the chief executive officer and senior partner at KPMG Canada. “We’re thrilled Alex is joining our rapidly growing digital team to help our public service clients adopt digitally-driven solutions to serve the evolving needs of Canadians.” Benay was also recently nominated for IT World Canada’s CIO of the Year Awards in the public sector category. Artificial Intelligence, Public Sector Government of Canada, KPMG, KPMG Canada, mindbridge, postmedia Hashtag Trending - Facebook admits to another data leak, Netflilx’s war on password sharing, Google voice-assistant training Preparing for the second wave of digital era change About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada