https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ai-in-the-enterprise-smarter-chatbots-ethical-ai-goes-global-in-2019/413014
Hashtag Trending: AI in the enterprise, smarter chatbots, ethical AI goes global in 2019 | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Hashtag Trending: AI in the enterprise, smarter chatbots, ethical AI goes global in 2019 Meagan Simpson @megesimpson Published: December 24th, 2018 Businesses adopting artificial intelligence, chatbots get smarter, and ethical AI goes global. Listen to the latest Hashtag Trending HERE! 2018 was the year that artificial intelligence seemed to really take off, with AI startups popping up everywhere and businesses looking to adopt the technology into everyday practices. But studies from Gartner and PwC show that only four per cent of technology executives successfully implemented AI this year in their businesses. In 2019 I predict that AI will be everywhere and more enterprises will be able to successfully adopt the technology to help improve business practices. For example, Deloitte Global projects that 70 percent of companies using AI will gain access to it through cloud-based enterprise software and services. My second prediction is that we will be interacting more with AI as an increasing number of chatbots and virtual assistants pop up on our screens. And it will be smarter. AI is already actively interacting with humans in the form of virtual assistants for customer service for example. And AI technology continues to pop up in more places, like cars for example thanks to the release of Amazon Echo Auto that brings Alexa to your car (though not in Canada just yet). As AI continues to interact with humans it will get smarter and the lines between knowing when you’re interacting with a human or AI will continue to blur. Though things won’t change overnight and AI still has a long ways to go in being fully human-like with its interactions, 2019 will see more chatbots that are smarter than ever. My final prediction is that ethical AI will go from global discussion to global policies. Governments, especially in Canada, have become increasingly aware of AI as a disruptive technology and the need to make sure it is governed by globally recognized ethical policies. The federal government this year created guiding principles for the responsible use of AI and prime minister Trudeau along with French president Emmanuel Macron committed to creating a global study group in ethical AI. As AI interacts with more people and is involved in making more decisions that affect our lives, ethical AI is an important discussion that needs to be had to ensure that it is responsibly implemented without bias towards the people it is interacting with. 2019 will see more international governments stepping up their efforts to work with businesses and organizations to develop and implement these ethical AI policies. Artificial Intelligence AI assistants, Amazon Echo, artificial intelligence, chatbots, ethical AI, hashtag trending, podcasts Canada backs U.S., hackers 'likely' linked to China compromised service providers here Cyber Security Today: Dec. 24, 2018 -- Location, location, location About Meagan Simpson Meagan Simpson is a Jr. staff writer for IT World Canada. A graduate of Carleton University’s journalism program, she loves sports, travelling, reading and photography, and when not covering tech news she can be found cuddled up on the couch with her cat and a good book. Follow Follow @megesimpson on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada