https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/shopify-terminates-its-chief-marketing-officer/426880
Shopify to let go of its CMO  | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Jeff Weiser, former Shopify CMO. Image source: Shopify Careers IT Workplace Shopify terminates its chief marketing officer Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: February 4th, 2020 Shopify’s chief marketing officer, Jeff Weiser, is out as the company restructures its marketing strategy and department, according to an internal email to employees obtained by BetaKit. In the email, co-founder and chief executive officer of Shopify, Tobi Lütke, wrote that Weiser will no longer be with the company and went on to explain how the company has been failing to achieve anything worthy out of its marketing strategies for the past couple of years. “The rebooted marketing team will operate less like an agency and more like one company,” Lütke noted. “At one point in the past, marketing and product were integrated and growth was planned into the product work from the build phase onwards. We need to get back there.” The company will now be merging its marketing department with its product department, which is currently headed by Craig Miller, the chief product officer at Shopify. Prior to that, Miller was the former chief marketing officer at the company from 2011 to 2018. In addition, Shopify will also be moving various sections of its marketing team to its different organizational departments, with the chief operating officer — Harley Finklestein — in charge of brand and communications, creative, and Shopify Studios. Parts of the marketing team will also be led by Aaron Brown, vice-president of international, and Bruno Roldan, vice-president and general manager of product sourcing. “This is a lot of change to take in all at once,” Lütke said in the email. He also added that the merged teams “will be active in shaping the next version of growth at Shopify.” Weiser led the marketing team of Shopify from its New York office and had joined the company as its chief marketing officer around two years ago, states his LinkedIn profile. Careers, IT Workplace digital marketing, marketing department, online shoppers, online shopping, Shopify Three things a new CISO should do LG withdraws from MWC in fear of coronavirus About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Shopify joins Facebook’s Libra Association Shopify pledges $6.6M annually to flight climate change Canada’s top 10 best tech companies to work for in 2019 Shopify Unite day 2: Buying clothes by playing virtual dress up Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada