https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-cyber-monday-huaweis-new-research-centre-playstation-turns-25/424764
Hashtag Trending - Cyber Monday, Huawei's new research centre, PlayStation turns 25 | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Cyber Monday, Huawei’s new research centre, PlayStation turns 25 Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: December 4th, 2019 Cyber Monday overshadows Boxing Day, Huawei is moving its U.S. research centre to Canada due to American restrictions on its activities, and the PlayStation turns 25. For the past couple of years, Canadians seeking deals for a shiny 4K TV or smartphone have chosen Black Friday over Boxing Day. The trend is expected to continue. While the Retail Council of Canada doesn’t track online sales, Shopify’s real-time map of Black Friday/Cyber Monday sales indicate broken shopping records in the U.S. Experts are anticipating similar patterns in Canada. One out of three respondents in a survey by Deloitte Canada leaned towards the stretched-out, week-long event. The same number indicated that Black Friday and Cyber Monday sales changed their habits for Boxing Day. The founder of Huawei says the Chinese tech giant is moving its U.S. research centre to Canada due to its ongoing battle with U.S. criminal charges and economic sanctions. The Globe and Mail article quickly made waves on the internet, with many people pointing to the elephant in the room. In May the U.S. State Department’s deputy assistant secretary for cyber policy, warned that Washington might rethink intelligence sharing with any country that allowed “unsecure and untrusted vendors” into its 5G networks. Canada hasn’t unveiled a timetable for a final decision. And lastly, trending on Twitter is the PlayStation’s 25th birthday. On December 3, 1994 – 25 years ago this week – the first PlayStation made its global debut in Japan. Starting from a humble beginning as an upstart within Sony, Ken Kutaragi and team surprised the world with the PlayStation, and became the first video game console to ship more than 100 million units. An interesting fact – In 1991 Nintendo announced that it would be breaking its partnership with Sony, opting to go with hardware company Philips instead to create a CD-ROM for the Super Famicom. But things turned out just fine for Sony. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Google CEO Sundar Pichai appointed as the new Alphabet CEO Shaping Canada's aspirations for a competitive 2030 digital based economy About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada