https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/trudeau-government-pushes-streaming-giants-to-support-canadian-content/426661
Trudeau government pushes streaming giants to support Canadian content | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Photo by Tero Vesalainen | Getty Images Digital Transformation Opinion Public Sector Trudeau government pushes streaming giants to support Canadian content Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: January 29th, 2020 Released this week, a report commissioned by the federal government in 2018 suggests U.S. tech companies, including Amazon, Netflix and Facebook, should collect the same taxes as those collected by Canadian companies, and that they make strong commitments to supporting Canadian content on their streaming services. GST/HST should be applied to foreign online services, according to the report by the Broadcasting and Telecommunications Legislative Review Panel. Netflix currently pays provincial tax only in Quebec and Saskatchewan. “Our recommendations for reform are practical and actionable providing the legislative powers and regulatory tools necessary to seize the opportunities and address the risks of the digital age,” Janet Yale, the chairwoman of the panel and a broadcasting and telecommunications industry veteran, said in a press release that came out with the report. Those recommendations also include an ad-free CBC and changes in the tax collection system. A bill could be tabled this year, Steven Guilbeault, the minister of Canadian heritage told the telecom news site Cartt earlier this month. The report also suggests combining Telefilm Canada and the Canada Media Fund into a new, publicly funded entity. Formed by the Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s government in the year 2018, this seven-member panel examines the broadcasting and telecoms laws in Canada, and advises the government on how different legislation could be reformed from time to time so that they are on a par with the ever-changing digital ecosystem. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Opinion, Public Sector Amazon, broadcasting, Canadian telecommunications, Facebook, federal government, Netflix, streaming Cyber Security Today - Applications accused of harvesting user data, NFL teams boot social media security and hacking gang members arrested Hashtag Trending- U.S. sues scam callers; Microsoft’s $40 million AI health care plan; Google’s new chat client About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Canada has highest wireless value among G7 nations: U.S. study Huawei launches Mate Xs foldable smartphone Shopify joins Facebook’s Libra Association Expert says CRTC’s data plan proposals for telcos are ‘misguided’ Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada