https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-top-3-hardware-stories-of-2019/425488
Hashtag Trending – Top 3 hardware stories of 2019 | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Top 3 hardware stories of 2019 IT World Canada Staff @itworldca Published: December 27th, 2019 Today’s episode is on my favourite subject: hardware. There have been so, so many cool stories to come out of 2019, but I’ll narrow it down to just three. After all, brevity is the soul of wit. First up, the chip war between Intel and AMD is on fire. 2019 saw Intel finally release its 10nm 10th-gen mobile processor, bringing with it a new core architecture and much-improved graphics. As everyone waited for Intel’s high-performance parts with bated breath, AMD dropped its 3rd-gen Ryzen and Threadripper processors featuring astonishing performance. While Intel is poised to dominate the mobile market, AMD’s desktop processors are earning glowing reviews and the favour of enthusiasts. With Intel set to ramp up 10nm chip production in 2020, expect even fiercer competition. Next, Microsoft has released a Windows PC using an ARM system-on-chip, or SoC for short. The Surface Pro X – a tablet-like laptop with a detachable keyboard – uses the Microsoft SQ1 chip based on Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 8cx processor. While they’re powerful and efficient, ARM processors are normally used for phones, not fully-fledged laptops. Although its integration is nowhere near perfect, Microsoft recommitting to ARM could spark a new breed of always-on devices with ultra-long battery life. The last story is one that happened quite recently. Samsung became a supplier of 5G equipment in Canada. The South Korean technology company is one of the few end-to-end suppliers on the market and has worked extensively with Korea’s top telecom companies to deploy their 5G networks. Samsung’s first Canadian customer is Videotron, who will extend its service in Ottawa and Quebec. Samsung said it’s also open to working with anyone else who’s looking to expand their networks. That’s it for today’s holiday episode of Hashtag Trending. Our special holiday episodes will run until January 1st, so come back tomorrow for more featured stores. Also, if you haven’t already, add us to your Alexa Flash briefings and your Google Home daily briefings. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace 2020 vision, hashtag trending, podcasts Videoconference system stored data in open AWS bucket, says new report 5 smart city trends for 2020 Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada