https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-ubers-fatal-crash-eu-to-investigate-facebook-apple-is-finally-making-its-own-screens/402961
Hashtag Trending – Uber's fatal crash, EU to investigate Facebook, Apple is finally making its own screens | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Emerging Tech Public Sector Hashtag Trending – Uber’s fatal crash, EU to investigate Facebook, Apple is finally making its own screens Alex Radu @alextradu Published: March 20th, 2018 Uber is pausing autonomous car tests after a fatal crash in Arizona, EU officials want to investigate Facebook after last week’s Cambridge Analytica reveal, and Apple may finally be manufacturing its own screens. From Twitter – Incredibly sad news out of Arizona yesterday. Uber has paused autonomous vehicle tests after one of its test vehicles struck and killed a woman in Tempe, Arizona who was crossing the road outside of the crosswalk. This is most likely the first pedestrian fatality involved autonomous vehicle technology. Yesterday morning, Uber announced that it would be suspending public road testing in Pittsburgh, San Francisco, Toronto, and the greater Phoenix area. How this will impact customer confidence in the safety of autonomous vehicles is yet to be determined. Our hearts here at IT World Canada go out to the victim’s family. From Linkedin – The Wall Street Journal is reporting that European Union officials intend to probe Facebook over the handling of user data. This investigation comes after Facebook said it is investigating whether a firm linked with the 2016 Trump campaign, called Cambridge Analytica, kept the personal data of nearly 50 million users. This personal data was then supposedly used for political purposes. The EU’s justice chief described the reports of personal data being misused for political purposes as ‘horrifying, if confirmed,’ and said that ‘companies [need] to take more responsibility when handling our personal data’. Facebook insists that it is ‘moving aggressively to determine the accuracy of these claims’ as it comes under fire for taking too much information about users, especially as new evidence emerges suggesting that politicians and Russian hackers attempt to manipulate Facebook in order to influence elections in places such as the U.S. and U.K. And from Linkedin once more – It looks like Apple is finally developing its own screens. According to Bloomberg, Apple is designing and producing its own device displays using a secret manufacturing facility near its California headquarter. The report says that Apple is currently making a significant investment in development its next-generation MicroLED screens for devices like the Apple Watch. This is the latest undertaking by Apple to bring product production in-house, as it started making its own chips for its devices a few years ago. While it may be years until consumers see these new MicroLED screens, global screen suppliers such as Samsung and LG could feel the sting of Apple developing its own screens in-house. For example, the iPhone X uses Samsung’s OLED displays. That’s what’s trending this week. Hashtag Trending is produced by IT World Canada. Today’s episode is sponsored by Cogeco Peer 1, the company that enables businesses to unlock their IT potential. Learn more at CP1.com. Careers, Emerging Tech, Public Sector Apple, EU, Facebook, hashtag trending, Uber Canada's Privacy Commissioner wants answers from Facebook regarding Cambridge Analytica data breach BlackBerry launches new mobile security solution with Microsoft to better secure Office 365 apps About Alex Radu is a Video Producer for IT World Canada. When not writing or making videos about the tech industry, you can find him reading, watching TV/movies, or watching the Lakers rebuild with one eye open. Follow Follow @alextradu on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Hashtag Trending – Gates says US botched COVID-19 response; Snopes overwhelmed; Plague Inc. flips the script Hashtag Trending – 3D-printed ventilators; Drones yell at people to stay indoors; Banning targeted ads Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada