https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-data-breach-is-no-longer-news-espn-losing-subscribers-weekend-saw-big-sales-numbers/412320
HashTag Trending – Data breach is no longer news;  ESPN losing subscribers; weekend saw big sales numbers | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Opinion HashTag Trending – Data breach is no longer news; ESPN losing subscribers; weekend saw big sales numbers Tom Li @itworldca Published: November 26th, 2018 Trending on LinkedIn, experts say that due to the frequency of consumer data breaches, people have become fatigued to the news. People are brushing them off and carrying on doing businesses with the affected company. The indifference is reflected in share prices. When a company announces a data breach, their stocks hardly budge. But everyone should remain cautious about data breaches, especially when it comes to employers who have access to personal health and financial data. Theft of social security numbers, bank information, and biometric data can have devastating effects. For sport fans, there’s nothing like the exhilarating feeling of watching a live game. But did you know that ESPN is bleeding subscribers? According to news trending on Reddit, ESPN has lost another two million subscribers due to people canceling cable this year. As more and more consumers turn to streaming services for entertainment, cable is dipping in subscriber count. Up until now, live sports are a main reason that anyone still has cable. But a survey conducted by BTIG research revealed that viewers would happily drop ESPN to save money. While it isn’t the main driver for cutting the cord, ESPN accounts for around eight dollars of the 75 dollar average cable bill. It’s Cyber Monday! That’s right, you’re not done shopping yet. According to Adobe Analytics’ data, this Black Friday / Cyber Monday sales event is on track to break last years figures. Between the evening of Thursday and the morning of Friday, it has already generated $643 million dollars in online spending. Sales were projected to hit more than $6.4 billion dollars on Friday alone, and today’s Cyber Monday will either match or surpass last year’s revenue of $6.6 billion dollars. Top selling electronics include Samsung TVs, Dell laptops, and GoPro cameras. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Subscribe to us on Apple and Google Podcasts. If you enjoy Hashtag Trending, we’d really appreciate it if you could review us on iTunes. Opinion hashtag trending, podcast Apple iPhone XS review: Apple's best is too expensive Cyber Security Today: Nov. 26, 2018 -- Don’t give thanks to this scam, hold on to your smart phones About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Hashtag Trending – Gates says US botched COVID-19 response; Snopes overwhelmed; Plague Inc. flips the script Hashtag Trending – 3D-printed ventilators; Drones yell at people to stay indoors; Banning targeted ads Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada