https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/koodo-admits-february-data-breach-data-already-being-sold-on-dark-web/428249
Koodo admits February data breach, data already being sold on dark web | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Koodo admits February data breach, data already being sold on dark web Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: March 6th, 2020 One of Canada’s three big wireless carriers was hacked last month, with the attacker making off with customer names and phone numbers for two months during the summer of 2017. The stolen data is already on sale online. According to Bleeping Computer, Telus has begun notifying customers by email that a database of subscribers to its low-cost Koodo service about the violation of security controls. The email says that on Feb. 13 an unauthorized third party using compromised credentials accessed the Koodo system and copied data for the months of August and September 2017. This data included customer mobility account number and telephone number. If that information changed since then, it wasn’t compromised. However, account and phone numbers could be used by a criminal to switch a customer’s mobile to other numbers. That would enable the attacker to receive a two-factor authentication code if that safety capability has been enabled. As a result, Koodo said it has enabled the “Port Protection” feature on the affected accounts, which prevents attackers from porting a Koodo Mobile number to another carrier unless the account holder first calls and requests it to be done. “We have found evidence that the unauthorized third party is offering the information for sale on the dark web,” the email to affected customers says. “With port protection in place, we do not believe that your information could be used for any fraudulent purposes. Nevertheless, we have reported this incident to law enforcement and the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada and we are working closely with them on this matter.” However, the news story also says the notice to customers advises them to stop using their mobile number as the second factor in a 2FA setup. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security data breach, postmedia, security strategies, Telus Xerox acquires Digitex Canada SAP selected by government to test a replacement for Phoenix pay system About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Telus says it’s providing free high-speed internet to low-income families for 60 days in response to COVID-29 Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada