https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-mac-pro-ar-sidewalk-labs-concerns-iron-man-launches-footprint-coalition/418802
Hashtag Trending – Mac Pro AR; Sidewalk Labs concerns; Iron Man launches Footprint Coalition | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Mac Pro AR; Sidewalk Labs concerns; Iron Man launches Footprint Coalition Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: June 7th, 2019 The new Mac Pros are popping up on rooftops thanks to augmented reality, Sidewalk Labs’ smart city project in Toronto is in the spotlight again, and Iron Man pledges to clean up the Earth. A few days after unveiling the redesigned Mac Pro, Apple added an AR feature on its website that lets anyone preview what the machine would look like on your desktop. Naturally, people took to Twitter to post photos of their virtual Mac Pro sitting on top of: rooftops, in people’s hands, and of course, next to blocks of cheese. The Mac Pro 2019 base model will be available this fall starting at around $8,000 CAD. A Guardian article about the Toronto’s smart city project is gaining a lot of attention on Reddit. The story quotes US venture capitalist Roger McNamee, who warns that tech companies such as Google can’t be trusted with the data they collect on Toronto’s residents. He put his concerns to writing and submitted them to Toronto City Council. The letter comes after news that Waterfront Toronto, the project’s advisory panel, is going to delay a planned vote on the whole thing to perform an extensive evaluation of Sidewalk Labs’ plans. And lastly, billionaire, playboy and philanthropist Tony Stark – I mean actor Robert Downey Jr. – took to the stage at Amazon’s new Machine Learning, Automation, Robotics and Space conference in Las Vegas recently and Reddit is talking a lot about it. Downey spoke to a room filled with AI experts and other dignitaries about his new idea – a new initiative called Footprint Coalition. Downey was thin on details – the coalition aims to clean up the planet with the help of emerging tech and robotics, an initiative the actor says he will commit to for the next 11 years. But the coalition won’t take off until April 2020, and beyond that, little info is available. The coalition’s website isn’t even up yet. But Downey told audience members he was serious about the effort. “I’ve got to do something. I’m unemployed,” he joked. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Careers hashtag trending, podcasts DIACC releases first model of Canadian digital trust framework as companies show off solutions Cyber Security Today: Another victim in medical billing recovery firm breach, healthcare industry attacks increasing, and look up and smile. About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada