https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/feddev-ontario-invests-5-million-for-new-incubator-lab-in-markham/419521
FedDev Ontario invests $5 million for new incubator lab in Markham | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Navdeep Bains says this investment is part of a plan to help high growth firms in Canada. File photo. Public Sector FedDev Ontario invests $5 million for new incubator lab in Markham Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: June 27th, 2019 FedDev Ontario has announced a $5 million investment into innovation centre ventureLAB for the creation of a lab and incubator hub in Markham, Ont. Dubbed Hardware Catalyst Initiative (HCI), the hub has been designed to support companies producing foundational technology in fields like artificial intelligence, machine learning, and quantum computing. The announcement was made this morning by Mary Ng, the minister of small business and export promotion and member of parliament for Markham-Thornhill, on behalf of Navdeep Bains, minister of innovation, science and economic development. “Today’s investment in ventureLAB builds on southern Ontario’s, and Canada’s, competitive advantages in advanced electronics, anchoring a strong hub that will help Canadian companies scale up and compete both at home and abroad while creating highly skilled jobs today and tomorrow,” said Bains. Additionally, the government reported that the incubator will help commercialize 15 new products. “Through FedDev Ontario’s contribution, our government is supporting cutting-edge companies in advanced electronics to develop and bring new products to market,” said Ng. “Today’s investment will support over 40 businesses in our community, create over 200 jobs in a recognized centre of innovation and strengthen Markham’s role in Ontario’s Innovation Corridor.” Through this investment, businesses will be given access to cutting-edge equipment with the focus of designing, prototyping, and producing new technology, as well have access to specialized programs, training, mentoring, and networking through ventureLAB. Located in Markham, ventureLab is Canada’s second largest innovation hub. It occupies 50,000 square-feet and houses over 45 tech companies and innovators. “Transformative technologies, innovation spaces, entrepreneurship and a free flow of ideas are at the core of our thriving tech ecosystem, anchored by industry leaders and startups that call Markham home,” said Frank Scarpitti, the mayor of Markham. “The strong relationships and collaborations we all share have positioned Canada for success on the world stage. Innovation across multiple disciplines and our diverse, strong and skilled talent are fueling economic growth.” Public Sector FedDev, FedDev Ontario, ventureLAB Hashtag Trending - Bitcoin price jump; telecoms get hacked; Bell increases fees Mississauga submits smart city plan, awaits final approval About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content ventureLAB announces first cohort of its Hardware Catalyst Initiative companies Vaughan partners with VentureLAB, York U, and Mackenzie Health to plan modern health precinct FedDev Ontario announces $4M investment in digital identity firm BioConnect FedDev Ontario invests into Everest Clinical Research through Women Entrepreneurship Strategy Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada