https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-new-airpods-released-firefox-update-blocks-autoplay-video-eu-fines-google-1-7b/416198
Hashtag Trending – New AirPods released; Firefox update blocks autoplay video; EU fines Google $1.7B | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – New AirPods released; Firefox update blocks autoplay video; EU fines Google $1.7B Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: March 21st, 2019 Apple released new AirPods. The new FireFox browser prevents the most annoying feature on the web. And Google is fined by the European Union for the third time. Trending on Google, Apple’s new AirPods. Apple announced the second generation of its wireless earbuds yesterday. Apple says that the embedded H1 chip, specially designed for headphones, brings some new features wit it. The new AirPods will last for one hour of extra talk time, compared to the previous generation. They will connect with your devices more quickly. And you can talk to Siri without even pressing a button. There’s also a new wireless charging case, so you can charge up your headphones while you’re on the go. In Canada, the new AirPods sell for $219 with the standard case, or $269 with the wireless case. They’re available now. And if you buy them, you can add a personal engraving for free. Firefox now blocks auto playing audio and video from technology Trending on Reddit, the new version of the Firefox browser blocks autoplaying audio and video. If you find you’re constantly annoyed by videos that start playing automatically as you scroll through Facebook, this is the feature for you. Firefox is kind to websites that play video with muted audio and allow for that. But anything else gets muted. You just click the play button if you do want to hear the video. Or you can add websites to a whitelist to allow for autoplay to work. Trending on Google, the European Union has fined Google $1.7 billion USD for illegal practices in search advertising. The EU says that Google used its monopoly position to force third-paries to use AdSense when they wanted to purchase search engine ads. The case was initially triggered by a complaint from Microsoft, which operates search engine competitor Bing. One of the main problems was that Google did not allow publishers to place advertising from competitors on search results pages, forcing them to use Google’s ads in that space. The misconduct lasted longer than 10 years. This is the third fine Google has been hit with by the EU. But it’s in the process of appealing the previous two fines. Careers Firefox, Google, hashtag trending, podcasts Norwegian aluminum maker recovering from ransomware attack Technology bringing about a new era in education and collaboration About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada