https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/build-privacy-controls-into-iot-devices-now-report-urges/406121
Build privacy controls into IoT devices now, report urges | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Shutterstock.com Privacy & Security Build privacy controls into IoT devices now, report urges Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: June 11th, 2018 Limiting the cyber security risks of Internet of Thing devices has long been a plea by experts. But a new report says lawmakers, regulators and manufacturers need to pay equal attention to sealing off the privacy risks of sharing data through so-called smart devices. That’s why the report from the University of California’s Center for Long-Term Cybersecurity and the IoT Privacy Forum says the public can’t wait for action. “Rather than wait until privacy norms have already been eroded by the IoT, regulators and designers should work together now to build usable privacy into the products they create,” says the report. Such measures will be essential to ensuring that our society continues to uphold the value of privacy as a fundamental right.” Policymakers should take steps to regulate the privacy effects of the IoT before mass sensor data collection becomes ubiquitous, rather than after, the authors say. Omnibus privacy legislation can help regulate how data is handled in the grey areas between sectors and contexts. At the same time makers of IoT products and services should employ a variety of standard measures to provide greater user management and control, as well as more effective notification about how personal data is captured, stored, analyzed, and shared. “The IoT has the potential to diminish the sanctity of spaces that have long been considered private, and could have a “chilling effect” as people grow aware of the risk of surveillance,” the report says. “Yet the same methods of privacy preservation that work in the online world are not always practical or appropriate for the personal types of data collection that the IoT enables.” Related Articles Government regulation of IoT coming, SecTor conference told Government safety regulation of the Internet of Things is coming, warns a prominent security expert, so technologists have to start... November 16th, 2017 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC The report calls for an omnibus privacy bill, which a number of countries have including Canada. The U.S. is one that doesn’t have a national privacy law. The report applauds the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation, which calls for the principles of privacy by design to be built into products and services that collect personal data. Canada’s private sector law, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA) doesn’t go that far. The report argues that as “smart” becomes the new default setting for devices, consumers are losing the ability to monitor and control the data collected about them, and they often have little awareness of what is done with their data downstream. The risks of sharing data through smart devices are not always clear, particularly as companies combine data from different sources to infer an individual’s habits, movements, and even emotions. That’s why the authors say that having “broad non-specialist” public conversations about the use, collection, and effects of IoT data is essential to help people understand the IoT and how it affects privacy expectations. There are lots of predictions of how many connected devices are coming to the world as industrial machines add sensors, retailers and police add surveillance cameras with facial recognition, and people buy voice-controlled connected home speakers, Internet-connected TVs and smart door locks. Google’s parent Alphabet wants to wire a Toronto lakefront neighborhood. Related Articles Sidewalk Toronto commits to Privacy by Design principles amid citizen concerns Responsible data use and privacy are top priorities of Sidewalk Toronto’s smart city development project in Toronto’s Quay Side community,... May 4th, 2018 Brian Jackson @brianjjackson “The introduction of such a broad and diverse sensor fabric into society has undoubted benefits, but it also introduces risks that must be explored and managed,” says the report. “Retreating to one’s home, closing an office door, or hanging up a phone may have previously allowed a person to feel a measure of control over who might be listening or watching,” the report points out, “but the presence of network-connected devices in private spaces can remove this sense of control and privacy.” Manufacturers are vague about what sensors are built into IoT devices and about which types of data constitute personal data, says the report. Few devices include a privacy policy in their physical packaging; instead, manufacturers provide links to websites, where the privacy policies are often difficult to find or insufficiently address privacy issues related to the device. It doesn’t help, the report adds, that several government regulating agencies may oversee an industry and may fight for control over privacy. or example, Companies should follow the privacy by design principles and be transparent and forthcoming about their data collection policies, says the report, and not collect or use data in ways that violate people’s expectations. Companies should commit to protecting users’ privacy by only collecting data for which they have specific uses, and by deleting the data when it is no longer needed. In addition, users should be given more power to update their privacy settings during the pre-collection or post-collection phases. A more detailed version of the report, entitled Clearly Opaque: Privacy Risks of the Internet of Things, can be found at https://www.iotprivacyforum.org/clearlyopaque. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Internet of Things, privacy Hashtag Trending - Toronto’s Big Data conference; Facebook glitch makes private posts public; goodbye to memes? Cyber Security Today: Another call for IoT privacy regulation, more on Atlanta’s ransomware recovery About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content COVID-19: Toronto mayor sparks debate on possible use of cellphone data for infection detection During a crisis, use and disclosure of personal information may be extended, ‘can be very broad’ says regulator Paranoid privacy tool can jam your smart speaker’s microphone Canadian privacy czar takes Facebook to court over Cambridge Analytica scandal Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada