https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/upcoming-huawei-flagship-phones-will-not-be-getting-google-apps/421384
Upcoming Huawei flagship phones will not be getting Google apps | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Mobility Upcoming Huawei flagship phones will not be getting Google apps Tom Li @itworldca Published: August 29th, 2019 Google has confirmed that the upcoming Huawei flagship phones will not have Google apps. This means that the Huawei Mate 30 series will not be getting YouTube, Gmail, and other popular apps on launch. Most importantly, future Huawei phones will not have access to the Google Play Store, which contains the entire app ecosystem for Android. Unless the decision is retracted, lacking Google Play Store would significantly hamper consumer interest in Huawei phones in Canada and Europe, where the majority of Android users rely on the Google ecosystem for day-to-day functions. Current generations of Huawei phones will not be affected. Users can continue to use all Google apps as normal. Huawei has yet to comment on how Google’s decision will affect its device launch roadmap. Google’s decision was in adherence to a U.S. sanction imposed by Donald Trump, which blacklists any U.S. tech companies from doing business with Huawei. A report by Bloomberg says that the blacklist also included more than 40 Huawei affiliates. Following the sanctioning announcement, Huawei was given a 90-day grace period to conclude its businesses with its U.S. customers. On August 19, the grace period was extended by another 90-days. “Huawei will continue to use the Android OS and ecosystem if the U.S. government allows us to do so. Otherwise, we will continue to develop our own operating system and ecosystem,” said a Huawei spokesperson to IT World Canada. On August 9, Huawei formally launched its HarmonyOS operating system. While it will initially be included in Huawei’s smart devices, Huawei Chairman Richard Yu said that all Huawei phones can switch over to HarmonyOS in a matter of days. Before the ban, Huawei overtook Apple Inc. as the world’s second-largest smartphone manufacturer in July 2018, and then again in May 2019. IT World Canada has reached out to Google for comment and will update the article once it receives a reply. Update: Google has declined to comment. Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility Android, Google, Huawei, Huawei Canada, Mate 30, Mate 30 Pro, smartphones Hashtag Trending - Apple suspends human voice analysis; Android app infected with malware; social media impares decisions Hashtag Trending - Apple reverses stance on repairs, coffee shop etiquette, Facebook addiction About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Huawei Watch GT 2 ups the ante in functionality Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone Your devices are germ magnets – here’s how to keep them clean Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada