https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/microsoft-partners-with-quebecs-terranova-security-to-deliver-cybersecurity-training/427862
Microsoft Partners with Quebec's Terranova Security to deliver cybersecurity training  | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image from CGinspiration | Getty Images Privacy & Security Microsoft Partners with Quebec’s Terranova Security to deliver cybersecurity training Staff @itworldca Published: February 27th, 2020 By Catherine Morin Microsoft this week announced a partnership with Terranova Security, a Quebec-based company specialized in cybersecurity awareness. Founded in 2001, Terranova designs training programs to help organizations worldwide reduce the human risk factor and effectively counter cyber attacks. Its course catalogue, phishing simulations, online resources, and awareness communication tools span over 1,000 programs in 40 languages. The partnership will allow Microsoft to integrate these resources with Microsoft Office 365 Advanced Threat Protection (Office 365 ATP), its cloud-based email filtering service designed to protect organizations against malware and viruses. “Human error remains the most significant cybersecurity threat to businesses,” explained chief executive officer for Terranova Security, Lise Lapointe. While many organizations employ highly sophisticated tools to prevent cyberattacks, very few invest sufficiently in awareness and training programs, she deplored. Terranova aims to build a more cyber aware culture by focusing on education and providing employees with the right tools and support to change their mindset. “Employees need training and simulations that establish a new thought pattern around managing emails. A combined approach of security awareness training and phishing simulations allows people to apply the lessons they learn in real-world scenarios, which helps reinforce new response patterns,” specified Lapointe. According to her, it is this core focus on human-centric training that cemented the partnership with Microsoft. Rob Lefferts, corporate vice-president, Microsoft 365 Security, confirmed that users falling to phishing is one of the most common and impactful risks facing their customers. “The partnership with Terranova enables us to deliver differentiated phishing simulation and human-centric training capabilities,” he declared in a press release. “The automation and integration built into Office 365 ATP will leverage and target phish training content to deliver a seamless, context-aware and engaging user experience,” added the tech giant in a blog post. Insights generated from the integration will flow into analytics and recommendations to help users customize and differentiate phishing simulation for optimal effect within their organizations. The Redmond-based company also stated in its blog post that Terranova shared Microsoft’s commitment to diverse and inclusive practices. “Microsoft strives to serve customers from all over the world, with different perspectives and needs. Terranova Security’s focus on diversity and inclusion bolsters our ability to deliver industry-leading experiences for all our customers.” Lapointe reckons that the integration with Office 365 ATP will extend Terranova’s reach, allowing more companies worldwide to create cyber-secure cultures. “Microsoft’s technology and platform enrich us with intelligent insights to develop training on the most recent and relevant risks. This partnership empowers Terranova to provide human-centric resources at maximum scale and efficacy,” she said. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Microsoft Clearview AI says its client list was stolen RSA Conference: More countries willing to steal economic secrets Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Hiring neurodiverse people has given us an edge, says AirGate CEO Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada