https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/prescribeit-could-soon-be-nationwide-e-prescription-service/416775
PrescribeIT could soon be nationwide e-prescription service | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation PrescribeIT could soon be nationwide e-prescription service Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: April 8th, 2019 PrescribeIT appears to be well on its way to becoming the nationwide e-prescription service, after reaching agreements with 7 provinces and territories, in addition to its previous agreements with Ontario, Alberta, and New Brunswick. Additionally, some retailers including Sobeys Inc., Lawtons Drugs, and Safeway Inc. have integrated the service into their practices. The service, which is the official e-prescription service of Canada Health Infoway, not only allows prescriptions to be created, re-filled, and sent to pharmacies without the need of the traditional prescription pad, but also provides integration that opens up lines of communication to help ensure no conflicting medicines are prescribed, that patients are taking their medicine, as well as other issues that can arise when communication is not effectively established. Since first being adopted less than three years ago, it has been very popular among physicians, says Dr. Mohamed Alarakhia, a practicing physician in Ontario, and he says this is due to the connectivity it provides between physicians and pharmacists. “For physicians, you’re sort of there on your lonesome. And what this allows to happen is that you become part of a virtual team,” said Dr. Alarakhia. “And so this allows you to form a strong team with that community of pharmacists, so that you can deal with those things in a more productive way.” By streamlining the communication process, it has saved time and created more time that can be spent on actually helping patients, said Dr. Alarakhia. “It has allowed us to focus more on patient care,” he said. “I’m getting prescription renewals right into my electronic medical records, so I don’t have to take extra steps to deal with them. So I can see patients faster. And so I think that there is that effect in terms of efficiencies, and seeing patients more quickly.” Beyond the advantages that PrescribeIT provides to physicians, it has also created a simplified process for patients, as Dr. Alarakhia notes that patients can now select their preferred pharmacy and have the order ready to be picked up when they arrive at the pharmacy, instead of having to drop off the prescription and waiting around for it to be filled. Mario Voltolina, the chief technology officer of PrescribeIT, also says he believes this could help curb fraudulent prescriptions, an issue that has been magnified in the midst of the opioid crisis. “One of the issues with paper based prescriptions is that somebody these days can make really good photocopies of them,” said Voltolina. “And typically those copies are not detected until after the prescription has happened. Because of the multi-factor authentication and identity proofing, there isn’t a paper trail that would allow people to actually copy a prescription.” Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation Canada Health Infoway, e-prescriptions, pharmaceuticals Canada 'very likely' will be hit by foreign cyber threats before October election: Federal report Developer 30 under 30 list expands to Evoke conference, hackathon in third year About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content PrecribeIT announces agreement with Intrahealth Canada Canadians deserve a health care system that protects their data from misuse There’s no silver bullet solution to solve the opioid crisis, but our health care system can make strides forward There’s a war for your data and health care is next Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada