https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/sidewalk-labs-signs-letter-of-intent-to-collaborate-with-george-brown-college/424542
Sidewalk Labs signs letter of intent to collaborate with George Brown College | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Education Public Sector Sidewalk Labs signs letter of intent to collaborate with George Brown College Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: November 28th, 2019 Sidewalk Labs is further cementing its footprint in Toronto by signing a letter of intent to collaborate with George Brown College on future projects related to its ongoing smart city project in the city. “We look forward to working with George Brown College, one of our most forward-thinking neighbours at Quayside,” said Alexis Wise, the director of Sidewalk Labs, in a press release. “We both share a commitment to putting community members at the forefront and building complete neighbourhoods, and look forward to testing and refining some of the ideas proposed in our plan for Quayside.” The projects will focus on innovative community programming, including opportunities to enhance digital literacy and technology skills, and opportunities to continue to strengthen the Toronto innovation ecosystem, according to the press release. Related story: New deal with Sidewalk Labs a huge win, says Waterfront Toronto’s privacy consultant “George Brown plays an integral role in the city of Toronto, and we want to continue to shape its future,” said Rick Huijbregts, the vice president of strategy and innovation at George Brown College, in the press release. “Sidewalk Labs gives us an opportunity to collaborate on a broad range of projects intended to build community, enhance innovation and provide unique learning experiences for our students.” Listed in the press release as areas the two parties could collaborate on are public engagement and research with students, guest lecturers from Sidewalk Labs coming into the school, building digital literacy skills, public workshops, and the possibility of designing and creating a community kitchen to host social gatherings and community programming and training. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Education, Public Sector Alphabet, George Brown College, sidewalk labs Ontario to launch e-scooter pilot project in 2020 Cyber readiness of Canadian manufacturing sector 'worrisome,' says CATA VP About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Google CEO Sundar Pichai appointed as the new Alphabet CEO New deal with Sidewalk Labs a huge win, says Waterfront Toronto’s privacy consultant Ontario privacy commissioner worries about lack of data oversight in proposed Sidewalk Labs plan Elevate: The smart city debate Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada