https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/theres-a-fast-lane-to-the-future-in-digital-health-care/424774
There's a fast lane to the future in digital health care | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech There’s a fast lane to the future in digital health care Cindy Baker @itworldca Published: December 5th, 2019 Legacy architecture is the number one cause of outages in health care systems. But now, there’s a way to help clear those roadblocks for Canadian health care organizations. New technologies, from electronic records systems to wearables and robotics, have huge potential to improve the health care experience, said Cisco Solutions Architect David Jirku at a recent ITWC webinar. But they may not have the desired outcome if the network can’t support them. “All innovations rely on the underlying infrastructure,” said Jirku. “You can’t drive a Ferrari on a dirt road. You want to rely on a road that meets the performance and security requirements.” The Infrastructure Adoption Model (INFRAM) helps smooth out the bumps in the road for these organizations. It provides an objective assessment of their infrastructure today, and what they need to do to support new services. Watch On Demand: How future-ready infrastructure puts digital healthcare in the fast lane A roadmap to bring your infrastructure up to speed INFRAM was developed by Cisco and the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS) to solve common challenges for health care organizations. “Organizations were building new hospitals, and asking what they need to do today to fulfill the unknown requirements of the future,” said Jirku. As well, more health care organizations are moving from paper to electronic medical records (EMR), but their infrastructures are not keeping pace. Jirku noted one situation where a hospital’s EMR system failed on day one because the infrastructure could not carry the new load. “The doctors revolted and went back to paper charting,” he said. The same thing could happen if the new application is too cumbersome to use, he added. The INFRAM model helps with an overall digital strategy roadmap. It gives health care organizations a third party review of their infrastructure, measured against a standard, worldwide benchmark, said Jessica Swanson, Account Manager for HIMSS Analytics. “It identifies where you are today and the gaps you need to fill to be able to deliver the applications to meet the needs of patients and clinicians.” The evaluation starts with a detailed survey to assess an organization’s infrastructure to determine its maturity level on a scale of one to seven. The model outlines the type of applications that organizations can support at each stage of their infrastructure development. “Organizations have the most success when they work with an INFRAM certified partner to guide them on what they need to do to move forward,” said Jirku. The benefits of a holistic assessment One of the top advantages of INFRAM is that health care organizations get one big picture of everything, Jirku said. “Often, a lot of people come and go and there isn’t one person who understands everything that has been installed.” The model also makes it easier to communicate with the leadership team from an objective perspective, he said. “It shows where best to make use of a limited budget to make a difference. You can clearly identify the gaps, and the health care outcomes that will be enabled by a technology investment.” When Michael Cole joined the Markham Stouffville Hospital as its new CTO, he jumped on the opportunity to get a “succinct snapshot” of the hospital’s infrastructure. “It provided a strong starting point, showcasing where we were at the time and what we needed to do to craft tangible steps to drive forward.” Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech Cisco, healthcare IT, INFRAM, legacy architecture Hashtag Trending - Googlers upset about founders departing; Amazon employees at risk; iPhone 11 Pro stealing location data Huawei moves U.S. research centre to Canada About Cindy Baker Cindy Baker has over 20 years of experience in IT-related fields in the public and private sectors, as a lawyer and strategic advisor. She is a former broadcast journalist, currently working as a consultant, freelance writer and editor. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cisco commits $225 million to COVID-19 response Cisco leadership undergoes another shuffle involving Amy Chang and David Goeckeler In response to COVID-19, Cisco is handing out free 90-day Webex business licenses RSA Conference: Democratize security, says Cisco official, and McAfee urges work on quantum-resistant solutions Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada