https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/university-of-waterloo-opens-new-research-center-with-nrc/419081
University of Waterloo opens new research center with NRC | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. The University of Waterloo said the success of their first venture fund directly led to the creation of this second fund. Credit: University of Waterloo Artificial Intelligence Public Sector University of Waterloo opens new research center with NRC Tom Li @itworldca Published: June 18th, 2019 The Canadian National Research Council (NRC) is collaborating with the University of Waterloo’s Faculty of Engineering and Faculty of Mathematics to improve research in artificial intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT), and cybersecurity. Key focus areas include battery-free touch sensors for IoT, reliable gesture recognition in virtual environments, and secure and scalable quantum-safe blockchain for critical infrastructure. The NRC says it’s looking to cement Canada’s identity as a forerunner in technology through collaboration with research institutes across Canada. Recently, it also opened a research hub at the Univerity of New Brunswick to analyze cybersecurity surrounding patents and commercialization, as well as AI products like voice recognition. Innovations from the partnership will be used in various industries. On June 17, Paris-based additive manufacturer Burloak Technologies signed an exclusive agreement with NRC for exclusive patents developed for direct energy deposition using a laser additive consolidation manufacturing process. “This collaboration centre brings together leading researchers to make significant advances in artificial intelligence and Canadian businesses,” said Iain Stewart, NRC president, in a press release. “We are proud to partner with the University of Waterloo and look forward to the success of this exciting collaboration” The NRC received $59.6 million in funding through the 2017 federal government budget to help the industry transform ideas into products. It’s a key part of the Innovation and Skill Plan. Both facilities also aim to provide training opportunities for graduate students and postdoctoral fellows. Artificial Intelligence, Public Sector AI, cybersecurity, National Research Council, University of Waterloo FireEye opens new headquarters in Toronto Canada can learn a lot from China and Europe when it comes to its data strategy, says Deloitte About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity The bad guys are arming themselves with AI, but so are we, says Darktrace’s country manager for Canada 10 women advancing AI in Canada University of Waterloo launches healthtech venture fund Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada