https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/accenture-appoints-jeffrey-russel-as-accenture-canada-president/411308
Accenture appoints Jeffrey Russell as Accenture Canada president | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Bill Morris, left, is set to retire in February as president of Accenture Canada and Jeffrey Russell, right, will replace him. Leadership Accenture appoints Jeffrey Russell as Accenture Canada president Shruti Shekar @shruti_shekar Published: November 1st, 2018 Accenture has appointed Jeffrey Russell as president of Accenture Canada as of Dec.1 and will replace Bill Morris who plans to retire at the end of February 2019. Russell, a native Torontonian, has worked with Accenture for the past 20 years and currently is the senior marketing director responsible for Accenture’s Products business in North America, a Nov. 1 press release said. He’s held several senior level positions within the firm including leading Products in the U.K. and Ireland, Life Sciences in North America, and Supply Chain and Operations-Management consulting across Asia Pacific. He initially joined Accenture in 1998 and was based in Australia. Accenture is a global professional services company and provides many services including solutions in strategy, consulting, digital, technology, and operations. “I am thrilled that Jeffrey will be the new president of Accenture in Canada. He has driven significant growth in our Products business in North America, and his broad and deep international experience will help our clients capitalize on the best innovations from around the world,” Julie Sweet, Accenture’s North America CEO, said in the release. The change means that Morris will be departing from the role after being in it for 12 years non-consecutively. The release said that under his leadership “the business has grown significantly – revenues have quadrupled in local currency since 2002…[and] Accenture has further strengthened its relationships with Canada’s leading enterprises and government organizations.” It has “become a market leader in high-growth areas such as digital, cloud and security services,” the release noted. “Under his leadership, Accenture has raised the bar in helping our clients navigate digital disruption – all while driving our inclusion and diversity commitment and ensuring that Accenture is the best place for our people to build lasting careers,” Sweet said. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership Accenture, accenture canada president, digital disruption, new hire Circumventing the cyber security skills shortage Cyber Security Today: Nov. 2, 2018 - FIFA breached again; Hack-o-lantern; Facebook approves fake ads About Shruti Shekar Shruti Shekar is a video producer and reporter for IT World Canada. She was formerly a political reporter at The Hill Times and was based in Ottawa. Her beats included political culture, lobbying, telecom and technology, and the diplomatic community. She was also was the editor of The Lobby Monitor, and a reporter at The Wire Report; two trade publications that are part of The Hill Times. She received a MA in journalism from Western University and a double BA honours in communication studies and human rights from Carleton University. She was born in India, grew up mostly in Singapore and currently resides in Canada. Follow Follow @shruti_shekar on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Accenture opens new intelligent operations centre in St. Catharines Accenture announces $1.1 million grant to Acces Employment to develop AI bot for job seekers Government investments in AI research doesn’t lead to strong adoption, says Accenture’s managing director of AI Cost of security breaches to Canadian firms studied averaged over $9 million a year: Report Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada