https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ces-2020-dell-introduces-the-xps-13-developer-edition-laptop/425769
Dell 2020 XPS 13 developer edition  | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Dell XPS 13 Developer Edition, 10th generation. Source: Dell Emerging Tech Infrastructure IT Workplace CES 2020: Dell introduces the XPS 13 Developer Edition laptop Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: January 7th, 2020 Aimed at power users and developers, Dell today announced its latest Dell XPS 13 developer edition at CES 2020. When it debuts next month, the latest Dell XPS 13 will be available with fingerprint-reader support and up to 32GB of RAM. The storage options on it start from 256GB SSD and go up to a 2TB drive. Representing the 10th generation of the edition, this system is based on 10th gen intel core 10nm mobile processors and comes with Ubuntu 18.04 LTS preloaded. Dell XPS 13. Source: Dell Dell has been offering these laptops for almost a decade now. The new models come in six different configurations starting with the 10th generation Ice Lake Core i3-1005G1 and go up to the Core i7-1065G7. Also: More CES 2020 coverage Fingerprint-reader support will be available as an update initially, however it will be available full-fledged post-launch. The addition of an option above 16GB is a result of a direct request from the community, the company noted in a blog post. In addition, the 2020 XPS 13 developer edition boasts the first-ever four-sided InfinityEdge display, which makes it virtually borderless. The extra screen space is still visible despite only a small change in the aspect ratio of the new display, from 16:9 to 16:10 aspect ratio. A larger display, accompanied by larger keycaps, and trackpad are all held in a form factor which is both thinner and smaller as compared to the prior generations. For ports, the system will include one microSD card reader, two Thunderbolt USB-C ports, and a 3.5mm jack for microphones or headphones. A handy type-C to USB-A 3.0 adaptor also comes with the system. Lastly, the computer packs a 52Wh battery, which Dell claims can last as long as 19 hours. The developer edition of Dell XPS 13 launches in February and will be available in Canada, the U.S. and select European countries starting at around CA$1560. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Infrastructure, IT Workplace ces, CES 2020, Dell, dell xps, developer tools, developers, xps Website accessibility is still an issue in Ontario, says expert Hashtag Trending - More CES, Facebook bans deepfake vids, flying car unveiled About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Dell Technologies sells RSA to Symphony Technology Group consortium for over $2 billion IBM Food Trust ensures savory olive oil and better coffee CES 2020 recap: 5G, devices, and what can enterprises learn from the monstrous tech event? Dell’s UltraSharp 27 4K PremierColor Monitor now available in Canada Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada