https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/new-report-says-windows-efs-encryption-could-be-leveraged-by-ransomware/426294
Windows' EFS encryption could be leveraged by ransomware: Report | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security New report says Windows’ EFS encryption could be leveraged by ransomware Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: January 21st, 2020 Infosec teams are being warned about a vulnerability in Windows’ file encryption capability which may mean temporarily abandoning the EFS encryption functionality Windows has long offered the EFS file and folder capability in the Pro, Professional, Business, Ultimate, Enterprise and Education editions of the operating system. Organizations may find this built-in functionality useful for protecting certain data, although an enterprise-toughened encryption solution may be required for large corporations. But in a blog this morning, SafeBreach Labs reported a proof-of-concept attack that would in effect turn EPS on itself, using the built-in encryption as a ransomware weapon to encrypt an entire disk. This “EFS ransomware” type of attack was tested with Windows 10 64-bit versions 1803, 1809 and 1903, the blog says, but should also work on Windows 32-bit operating systems, and on earlier versions of Windows as far back as Vista. Related: Ransomware now stealing data To a threat actor, this type of attack has the advantage of encrypting files deep in the kernel at the NTFS driver level, and the modification wouldn’t be noticed by file-system filter drivers. It also doesn’t require administrator rights or human interaction. On the other hand when files and/or folders are encrypted, a small yellow padlock icon is displayed at the top right corner of the file/folder main icon, which might tip off a user of something suspicious. And if a Data Recovery Agent is defined for the machine (this is not the default for standalone/workgroup machines, but it is the default for domain-joined machines), then recovery is trivial using the Data Recovery Agent. What worried SafeBreach is that a test of several anti-ransomware solutions — including Windows 10 Controlled Folder Access — failed to catch the attack SafeBreach had crafted. Last fall it quietly contacted a number of security providers such as Avast, ESET Kaspersky and others. Many of them have since updated their software to detect such an attack or are about to issue updates. SafeBreach said Microsoft told it last October that it considers Controlled Folder Access a defence-in-depth feature. “We assessed this submittal (by SafeBreach) to be a moderate class defence-in-depth issue, which does not meet the Microsoft Security Servicing Criteria for Windows. Microsoft may consider addressing this in a future product.” Still, some organizations may want to stop using or turn off EFS until they are sure detection of this kind of attack is assured, or they may want to find another encryption solution. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security encryption, postmedia, security strategies, Windows Hashtag Trending - Google CEO calls for AI regulation; gotta hand it to Amazon; adult site leaks data Canada ranks 2nd globally for tech adoption, says Cisco report, but fails to crack top 10 for basic needs and infrastructure About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada