https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/kobo-releases-new-e-reader-as-it-fights-netflix-and-facebook-for-your-attention/392799
Kobo releases new e-reader as it fights Netflix and Facebook for your attention | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Wireless & IoT Kobo releases new e-reader as it fights Netflix and Facebook for your attention Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: May 2nd, 2017 Toronto-based Rakuten Kobo Inc. revealed its new mid-range e-reader, the upgraded Kobo Aura H20, on Tuesday. In updating the model that was first introduced to the market in August 2014, Kobo CEO Michael Tamblyn says the firm applied lessons that it learned in developing its flagship Kobo Aura One e-reader. That flagship model debuted last year, offering a large screen-size, waterproofing, and a bevy of connected services. Even to Tamblyn’s surprise, the premium hardware priced at $249.99 is overperforming. “We’ve been very pleasantly surprised with how the premium e-reader market has been developing,” he says. At first, Kobo bet its premium hardware would be niche, taking about five per cent of the market. Most e-reader makers aim to produce hardware that is as low cost as possible, so Kobo reasoned its pocket-sized Aura e-reader would capture the lion’s share of its sales. But models like the Aura H20 proved that wrong, accounting for about 25 per cent of the sales, and the Aura One has even more incremental sales, Tamblyn says. “The great thing about books is that they are shockingly durable as a medium,” he says. “We’re fighting with Netflix, we’re fighting with Facebook, we’re fighting with any other service that could get that spare hour of your day.” The new Kobo Aura H20 is waterproof, without need for any port coverings. (Image courtesy Kobo.) Part of winning that fight, in Tamblyn’s view, is to help avid readers feed their inner bookworm near water. Kobo’s research shows that about half of its “heavy readers” demographic spend time reading in a situation that risks a soaking. From in the bath to on the dock, trusting your device isn’t going to get wet is one less stress. With the new Aura H20, Kobo is introducing a feature it calls HZO protection. It’s a nano-coating layer that waterproofs the device to IPX8 standards without the need for seals on the ports, like those seen on the original Aura H20. The new device is waterproof for 60 minutes submerged at a depth of two meters. Aside from the certification testing, Tamblyn says Kobo staff run their own real-world tests on the hardware. “How is it when you spill water on it? What about coffee?” he says. “The great thing is you can wash it off and just start reading again.” Another new feature on the Aura H20 is the ComfortLight Pro. First introduced with the Aura One, this changes the frequency of the backlight to be more in line with circadian rhythm. So it’s blue light during the day, shifting to a more red spectrum as it gets closer to night. Kobo says that helps avoid sleep disruption if you’re up late reading in bed. “We had users that were very concerned with having technology with them before bed and the idea that the blue light they emit would disrupt their sleep patterns,” he says. “So by the end of the day you’re getting light out of your e-reader that’s more like candlelight, or light from a sunset.” Kobo’s research shows that avid readers are often reading near water. (Image courtesy Kobo.) Just like music enthusiasts are happy to purchase a premium pair of headphones, Tamblyn says book lovers will purchase a premium e-reader. He says Kobo has an advantage as the largest standalone e-reading service in the world, with a business model not bogged down by other activities. “We’re continuing to get better on how to be the best bookseller possible,” he says. The new Kobo Aura H20 is available for pre-order May 15 and will be for sale at $199.99 on Kobo.com and at select retailers May 22. It features 8 GB of storage (enough for 6,000 e-books), a 6.8″ e-ink touchscreen, and a battery that lasts long enough for weeks of reading. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Wireless & IoT e-readers, Kobo, Michael Tamblyn AI could double Canadian annual economic growth rates: report Canadians give their wireless carriers a B grade: J.D. Power About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Kobo: 10 years of Canadian innovation Travel tech for the busy exec Hashtag Trending – Whole Foods hiring, Google interviews Trudeau, new e-reader Audible launches Canadian dedicated service Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada