https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-gif-jif-debate-resurfaces-clearview-ai-gets-breached-tesla-autopilot-woes/427776
Hashtag Trending - Gif/Jif debate resurfaces, Clearview AI get's breached, Tesla Autopilot woes | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Gif/Jif debate resurfaces, Clearview AI get’s breached, Tesla Autopilot woes Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: February 27th, 2020 One of the internet’s longest and silliest debates returns, Clearview AI says it suffered a data breach because of course it did, and it turns out Tesla’s Autopilot was one of the “probable causes” of a deadly crash in 2018. The makers of Jif peanut butter team up with Giphy to try to settle the GIF/Jif debate once and for all from technology The J.M. Smucker Company, which makes Jif, has teamed up with Giphy to release a special jar of Jif peanut butter that replaces the classic Jif branding on the label with “Gif.” By placing the special edition jar next to a normal jar of Jif, the company says it’s more than just clever advertising, but another attempt to highlight the way each word should be said. While it clearly makes more sense to pronounce Gif with a hard G since GIF stands for “Graphics Interchange Format.” But despite the logic behind that idea – Reddit mostly appears to agree with me – the creator of the GIF, Steve Wilhite, has said that the acronym “GIF” should be pronounced “Jif.” And now I have a headache. After entering the spotlight for all the wrong reasons, Clearview AI says it suffered a data breach this week. The facial-recognition software maker that sparked privacy concerns recently says the data stolen included its entire list of customers, the number of searches those customers have made and how many accounts each customer had set up. In a statement to CNET, Clearview’s attorney said “Security is Clearview’s top priority. Unfortunately, data breaches are part of life in the 21st century. Our servers were never accessed. We patched the flaw, and continue to work to strengthen our security.” And lastly, after nearly a two-year investigation, it turns out Tesla’s autopilot driver assistance program was among the “probable causes” of a deadly crash in 2018, according to The National Transportation Safety Board. The Mountain View, California, crash was caused in part by limits of the autopilot’s vision-based processing system. Additionally, Tesla’s mechanism to ensure drivers pay attention while using the system was insufficient. Apple, Tesla and road-safety regulators were all criticized in the report. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts RSA Conference: More countries willing to steal economic secrets How to stonewall the hackers trying to to get around your MFA About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada