https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-facebook-beefs-up-live-restrictions-oneplus-7-pro-review-wannacry-2-years-later/418098
Hashtag Trending – Facebook beefs up Live restrictions; OnePlus 7 Pro review; WannaCry 2 years later | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Facebook beefs up Live restrictions; OnePlus 7 Pro review; WannaCry 2 years later Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: May 16th, 2019 Facebook takes action to prevent hateful content from live-streaming on its platform. The OnePlus 7 Pro smartphone gets a rave review. And two year after the WannaCry ransomware, we’re still haunted by its threat. Trending on LinkedIn, Facebook has introduced new restrictions on its live-streaming videos. The social network says it wants to prevent its services from being used to “cause harm or spread hate.” This is following March’s attacks in New Zealand that saw the act of terrorism live broadcast over the platform. Facebook says there is now a one-strike policy. Users that violate its most serious policies will be restricted from using live-streaming for a set period of time. For example, if you share a link to a terrorist statement without any added context, you will be immediately blocked from using Facebook Live for a period of time. Facebook hopes to extend this new policy to other areas soon, including ads. Trending on Youtube, is Marques Brownlee’s review of the OnePlus 7 Pro. This is a smartphone made by an independent manufacturer that you’d have to order online to have shipped to Canada. No carrier here sells it. It offers a larger screen size of any other smartphone in Canada, at 6.67 inches, without any hint of a bezel. The screen and the speed are the stand out features of this premium device. The OLED display runs at 90 Hz. There’s not even a notch for the camera. The selfie camera pops out of the top. Trending on Google, two years after WannaCry spread around the world and crippled government and hospital systems, people are still worried about it. WannaCry was the product of leaked NSA tools, weaponized by hackers. We sort of don’t know what those tools could do next. Even with WannaCry, more than one million devices are still vulnerable to the exploit. Microsoft released patches for it, but as with any update, computer users and businesses are often bad at deploying them. Remember, keep your systems patched and up to date. And to protect yourself against ransomware, keep a current, secure and isolated backup. Careers Facebook, hashtag trending, OnePlus, podcasts, WannaCry Industry, government, academics form group to help solve Canada's cyber talent shortage Trudeau to tech companies: Get tough on fake news or face fines About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada