https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/clir-appoints-former-bench-accounting-and-hootsuite-director-as-cto-to-drive-expansion-of-its-ai-capabilities/423788
Clir appoints former Bench Accounting and Hootsuite director as CTO | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Power turbine wind mills on rolling hills with a blue sky - Clir Artificial Intelligence Cloud Leadership Clir appoints former Bench Accounting and Hootsuite director as CTO Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: November 7th, 2019 Clir Renewables says it’s doubling down on artificial intelligence capabilities for the wind industry by appointing Louisa Thue, a former Hootstuite employee, the company announced on Nov. 5. Before transitioning to Clir, Thue was vice-president of data and analytics at PaybyPhone for five months prior to leading the technical team at Bench Accounting for roughly two years. Additionally, she worked at Hootsuite for six years across its engineering, data and product domains. At Clir, Thue will steer the expansion of the company’s cloud-based AI capabilities across the global wind energy industry. Commenting on her appointment in a press release, Thue said, “There is a huge opportunity for software and data analytics in renewable energy, and I look forward to bringing my technical experience to Clir as it invests in optimizing energy generation and asset availability across the global wind industry.” Operating as a Software as a Service (SaaS) firm in the renewable energy industry, Vancouver-based Clir Renewables is a provider of digital asset performance technology for wind energy. The company provides a solution developed by engineers for engineers. The cloud-based AI platform provides asset managers and owners with tools to maximize annual energy production and provide clarity on portfolio performance. With a clear market opportunity to assist the wind industry in improving its asset performance, Clir has recently closed its Series A funding round, securing a CA$7.1 million investment from ArcTern Ventures. This funding will allow the company to focus on additional development of its AI-based analytics platform and optimize power generation at a global fleetwide level. ArcTern Ventures is a North American venture capital firm investing in breakthrough clean technologies. ArcTern invests at an early stage with the capacity to provide follow-on capital to fund companies through to market leadership. Artificial Intelligence, Cloud, Leadership AI, artificial intelligence, chief technology officer, cloud, CTO, HootSuite, renewable energy, SaaS, Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) BlackBerry and Canadian Girl Guides launch new cybersecurity badge Hashtag Trending - Twitter employees charged for spying; Sanders calls for Facebook breakup; Video game curfew in China About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content The bad guys are arming themselves with AI, but so are we, says Darktrace’s country manager for Canada 10 women advancing AI in Canada Gartner says nearly half of privacy compliance technology to rely on AI by 2023 Inflection Point I An interview with AltaML’s managing director about AI’s role in shaping Calgary’s digital future Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada