https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-3-tech-predictions-from-the-last-decade-that-were-very-wrong/425480
Hashtag Trending – 3 tech predictions from the last decade that were very wrong | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – 3 tech predictions from the last decade that were very wrong IT World Canada Staff @itworldca Published: December 25th, 2019 The start of a new decade is just around the corner, and everyone is expecting technologies such as artificial intelligence and the growing number of the Internet of Things to change the way we live, work, and play. But today, we decided to look back at the last decade and see which predictions were off the mark. When Amazon.com released its Elastic Compute Cloud product in 2006, many industry experts thought it signaled the end of your traditional data centre. Everything is going to the cloud now, they said. And while cloud computing did explode, leading to the creation of companies like Netflix, Facebook, and Uber, thousands of businesses and enterprises realized the value of having an on-premises set up. Initial concerns revolved around how cloud required users to surrender control over their infrastructure, so it was a poor fit for workloads that demanded tight security. Today, that argument doesn’t hold much water as hyperscalers pump millions into cloud security every year. Now, cloud cost optimization and low latency workloads remain some of the primary reasons why enterprises maintain an on-prem infrastructure. But it’s almost a certainty that we’ll eventually reach a point where nearly everyone will be serverless, but those initial claims that servers are dead were entirely overblown. In 2009, American inventor and futurist Ray Kurzweil prophesized pop-ups in people’s visual field of view that would give them background information on people and places. He went on to predict that human memory and information available on the internet will be integrated in the coming decade. With a few days left to 2020, it’s safe to say that these predictions haven’t come to fruition yet. Integration of the human brain with the internet is being discussed but no major development has yet been made. Expect more work to be done on this front in the coming years. And lastly, there were some very bold claims were made about the future of 3D printing heading into the last decade, and while the boost provided by industrial use increased the market value of 3D printing to $2.2 billion in 2017, 3D printers did not make their way into people’s homes at scale, and remains largely a curiosity for most people. It’s undeniable the benefits 3D printing brings – cheaper production costs, improved sustainability and product designs – but it looks like it’s going to take another decade for the technology to fully come into its home, and into people’s homes. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace 2020 vision, hashtag trending, podcasts Cyber Security Today - Star Wars scams, unsafe child trackers, Honda car owner data exposed and last-minute security gifts Hashtag Trending - Top 3 telecom stories of 2019 Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada