https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-microsoft-now-worth-1-trillion-facebook-breaks-privacy-laws-in-canada-facebook-prepares-fine-by-ftc/417302
Hashtag Trending – Microsoft now worth $1 trillion; Facebook breaks privacy laws in Canada; Facebook prepares fine by FTC | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Microsoft now worth $1 trillion; Facebook breaks privacy laws in Canada; Facebook prepares fine by FTC Tom Li @itworldca Published: April 26th, 2019 Microsoft hit $1 trillion in valuation; Canada highlights Facebook’s weak privacy policies; Facebook prepares to be fined by the FTC. It’s all the tech news that’s popular right now. Welcome to Hashtag Trending. It’s Friday, April 26th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Google, Microsoft has joined the trillion dollar club following Apple and Amazon. After releasing its Q3 earnings report yesterday, the technology giant saw its stock price increase to $130, exceeding $1 trillion in valuation. For now, it has superseded Apple as the most valuable public trading company in the world. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella attributes the company’s growth to strong performance in the cloud sector, although it has seen improvement in all its other businesses as well. Trending in Canada, an investigation by the Office of Privacy Commissioner of Canada has revealed that Facebook has failed to obtain valid and meaningful consent of installing users, and that it had inadequate safeguards to protect user information. The report says that Facebook ignored recommendations to improve its privacy policy, which was not meant for meaningful data protection. Be sure to read the full report and ITWC’s extensive coverage of the story linked in our transcript. In the same vein, Facebook has set aside $3-$5 billion in preparation for a fine from the FTC. According to the MIT Technology Review, the FTC is investigating Facebook for breaking a privacy consent ruling in 2011 and its involvement in the Cambridge Analytica case. If Facebook is struck by the fine in full, it would be the biggest fine ever issued by the FTC. Relative to Facebook’s annual $56 billion revenue, the fine would still be significant, but likely won’t heavily damage the company. The investigation is still ongoing and has yet to reach a meaningful conclusion. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Careers hashtag, hashtag trending, podcasts Canadians lose trust in Facebook as it battles privacy watchdogs Cyber Security Today: Valuable data on used hard drives, and a quantum computing warning About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada