https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-a-big-day-for-the-internet-in-the-us-amazon-now-enabling-users-to-make-any-speaker-a-smart-speaker-first-ever-image-of-a-black-hole-released/416952
Hashtag Trending – A big day for the internet in the US; Amazon now enabling users to make any speaker a smart speaker; First ever image of a black hole released | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – A big day for the internet in the US; Amazon now enabling users to make any speaker a smart speaker; First ever image of a black hole released Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: April 11th, 2019 A big day for the internet in the states as the House of Representatives voted to reinstate net neutrality. Amazon releases hardware to turn any speaker into a smart speaker. And the first ever picture of a black hole has been released. It’s all the tech news that’s popular right now. Welcome to Hashtag Trending. It’s Thursday April 11th, and I’m your host, Buckley Smith. It was a big day for the internet in the US today, and 2 stories trending on Reddit highlight the issues at play. The biggest news was the House of Representatives voting to reinstate net neutrality. For those that do not know, net neutrality would make it illegal for internet service providers to block consumer access to the internet or specific websites. While this vote was a big step towards what Nancy Pelosi described as “honoring the will of the people”, there were many who believe this is the end of the road for net neutrality. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell told reporters that it would be “dead on arrival” once it is brought before the senate. On top of this, two US senators introduced a bill called The DETOUR Act, which would prohibit internet firms with over 100 million monthly users from gathering your personal data in deceptive ways, as well as some other shady practises that were named in the bill. Trending on Google, Amazon has announced it will begin selling its Echo Link Amp device. This device will allow you to bring your internet connected music streaming, as well as voice control to your favourite sound system. By enabling voice control, it also allows for the use of Amazon Alexa with your preferred speaker set. Our final story comes from Reddit and is a story that has had the eyes of much of the world on it today. Astronomers released the first ever image of a black hole. While we have seen many renderings of what experts believe it would look like, thanks to the efforts of Professor Heino Falcke, who has been advocating for this to happen for over two decades, we now know they were pretty darn close in their estimations. It took a team of 200 scientists and a network of telescopes, but it worked. With that being said, the image that has been released is rather blurry, but this is sure to be just the first step in the furthering of human understanding of black holes. Tweet at us and tell us how you listen to Hashtag Trending. Our Twitter handle is @itworldca. Again, that’s @itworldca. We’ll share your answers on a future podcast. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. I’m Buckley Smith, thanks for listening. Careers hashtag trending, podcasts Canada can court Big Tech while creating homegrown success stories Ottawa should impose cyber obligations on banks, says national security expert About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada