https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/montreal-metro-fires-up-subway-mobile-wireless-service/100101
Montreal Metro fires up subway mobile wireless service | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Mobility Public Sector Wireless & IoT Montreal Metro fires up subway mobile wireless service Nestor E. Arellano @NestorArellano Published: November 28th, 2014 Subway commuters in Montreal will now be able to browse the internet, listen to streamed music, watch videos and make and receive calls during throughout the tunnels and stations along the systems green line segment. The Societe de transport de Montreal (STM) announced today that it has flipped the switch of for wireless Internet and mobile service for its subway line that runs through Montreal’s downtown area between Guy-Concordia and Saint-Laurent stations which is now equipped to handle 3G, 4G and 4G long term evolution (LTE). This makes Montreal only one of a handful of cities in the world with a subway with a 4G LTE network. Related Articles Toronto’s subway Wi-Fi network officially online 2 TTC stations get Wi-Fi, but not cell service Montreal subway to get wireless service The wireless network implementation is a joint project of STM, and wireless carriers Bell, Rogers, Telus and Videotron that pitched in a total of $50 million in investment equally split among the telecom companies. It is the first of five phases expected to be completed within seven years. “The fact that the first stretch is finished in great news because it means our customers can stay connected while travelling, allowing them to plan their travels by consulting schedules and routes on our Web site and using mobile tools, receive information from the STM in real-time or simply consult their favourite apps while travelling,” Philippe Schnobb, STM chain, said in a statement today. Mobile device users are connected to the subway mobile service network by transmitting and receiving radio frequency signals (RF) to and from antennas deployed throughout the stations and tunnels. The RF signals are relayed through coaxial cables to amplifiers that convert them into optical signals. The signals are sent to the central equipment room. There the signal is converted back to RF, separated by service provider and sent to each of the appropriate telecom company’s base station. At the base station, the signal is converted back to optical signal and sent to the mobile telephone switching office of the appropriate operator. Voice and data transmission are then sent to their proper destinations. Over the next two years the project will focus on expanding the wireless network to the most-travelled stations along the subway system’s green and orange lines between Beaudry and Guy-Concordia on the green line and between Mont-Royal and Namur on the orange line. The network Berri-UQAM, the most significant station of the Montreal Metro, which serves more than 125,000 commuters every day, is expected to go live be the end of 2014. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Mobility, Public Sector, Wireless & IoT Bell, Government Services, LTE, Mobile Internet, Rogers, telecom carriers, Telus, Videotron Growth vs. risk: How CIOs can determine their firm's comfort zone Siemens patches SCADA flaws About Nestor E. Arellano Toronto-based journalist specializing in technology and business news. Blogs and tweets on the latest tech trends and gadgets. Follow Follow @NestorArellano on Twitter Join Nestor E. Arellano on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Telus says it’s providing free high-speed internet to low-income families for 60 days in response to COVID-29 Telus to donate $10 million to address public healthcare crisis Bell, Rogers, Telus and others temporarily remove internet data caps Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada