https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/how-canadas-73-year-old-radio-and-tv-audience-data-service-is-adopting-analytics/396939
How Canada's 73-year-old radio and TV audience data service is adopting analytics | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Big Data & Analytics Leadership Managed Services & Outsourcing How Canada’s 73-year-old radio and TV audience data service is adopting analytics Alex Radu @alextradu Published: September 25th, 2017 Washington D.C. – Canada’s audience measurement organization for TV and radio, Numeris, is embracing what analytics can do for its internal organization. The company, which was founded in 1944 as a division of the Canadian Association of Broadcasters as the Bureau of Broadcast Measurement, is the primary provider of viewership numbers for TV and radio broadcasters in Canada. In 2001 it shortened its name to BBM Canada, and in 2014 it went through a full rebrand to become Numeris. Back in 1964, the non-profit organization became one of the world’s first ratings services to use computerized sample selection, and in 2004 it teamed up with the United States’ Nielsen Media Research for its portable people meter system for TV. Now Numeris has turned to SAS Institute Inc. for the SAS Platform and the analytics resources that accompany it. According to Derrick Gray, director of audience measurement science at Numeris, the organization was looking for a business intelligence solution like the one SAS provides. “The ability to start leveraging the open source platforms together on SAS is key for me. We are building a data science team right now, and we are getting a little bit of pressure to develop a high level data analytics team,” Gray told Canadian media at the SAS Analytics Experience 2017. For now, Numeris is using this technology for operational data that can help the company ‘drive down costs and increase quality’, explains Gray. The company’s sample data comes from phone calls, and with fewer participants answering their phones it takes more effort to reach the 180,000 respondents required in the dairy markets and to maintain the 11,000-person electronic measurement panel that the organization needs to produce those radio and television audience estimates. Related Stories Toronto Pearson International Airport installs Canada’s first ‘smart elevator’ Citrix Cloud gets extended AI-powered data analytics service “To get our ideal sample number we have to dial around 2 million households annually. With SAS Viya [SAS’ artificial intelligence platform], we will be able to shift to a centralized business intelligence tool, SAS Visual Analytics, so users from across departments can collaborate,” said Gray. The inter-departmental cooperation that comes with this technology is key for Gray, who wanted to alleviate the reliance other departments had on his in order to create dashboards and reports. Beforehand, those departments had to come to his for help, while now they have the ability to self-serve. “More people will have access to common, consistent data, allowing Numeris to quickly see patterns and explore insights so we can easily maintain our existing list of households, dial fewer numbers, and improve participation outcomes,” Gray added. As for when these analytics technologies will be used in the actual audience metrics collected by the organization, that may be some time off. Due to Numeris’ governance structure, it has a pretty strict governance process that requires this technology to go before various committees before it can be implemented. Related Download Sponsor: IBM Digital Reinvention in action: What to do and how to make it happen Register Now Big Data & Analytics, Leadership, Managed Services & Outsourcing analytics, Numeris, SAS Ransomware roundup: Sept. 30 DDoS threat circulating macOS High Sierra: 5 under the hood new features About Alex Radu is a Video Producer for IT World Canada. When not writing or making videos about the tech industry, you can find him reading, watching TV/movies, or watching the Lakers rebuild with one eye open. Follow Follow @alextradu on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Analytical disease tracking has come a long way since SARS, said SAS’s director of government practice OpenText Enfuse 2019: The Carbonite acquisition, new apps, and updates TD Bank opens new operations hub in Toronto Sponsored By: SAS Running the last mile in analytics Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada