https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/everyone-wants-to-work-for-tech-companies-and-disney-surveymonkey-finds/396342
Everyone wants to work for tech companies (and Disney), SurveyMonkey finds | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Leadership Everyone wants to work for tech companies (and Disney), SurveyMonkey finds Eric Emin Wood @ericewood Published: September 6th, 2017 Tech has long enjoyed an employee-friendly reputation – and according to a new survey by the “People Powered Data platform”-harnessing researchers at SurveyMonkey, its only real competition is the Mouse House. In fact, of the 14 companies included in the survey’s lists of top companies men, women, millennials, and non-millennials (respondents over 35) would like to work for, nine were tech firms: Microsoft Corp., Google Inc., Apple Inc., Intel Corp., Cisco Systems Inc., Amazon.com Inc., HP Inc., Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE), and IBM Corp. None of the lists featured fewer than six. Courtesy SurveyMonkey (click for a larger version) Released in July the survey, produced in collaboration with Fortune magazine, polled over 13,000 Americans of varying ages, sex, and political affiliation to find out which companies they admired most, admired least, and which they believed had the most positive impact on the U.S. Unsurprisingly, the results varied the most along age and political affiliation, though Microsoft, Google, Apple, Intel, and Amazon (and Disney, and aerospace firms Boeing and Lockheed Martin) consistently appeared across multiple lists. Amazon executives should also be proud to know that their efforts to place innovation front and centre in their operations, a cue followed by much of the tech industry, has not gone unnoticed. Courtesy SurveyMonkey (click for a larger version) Given the current political climate surrounding the current U.S. administration, SurveyMonkey also couldn’t resist asking voters whether they voted for Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton and mapping their preferences accordingly. Trump voters, for example, were more excited to work for industrial and aerospace companies, and also more likely to cite non-tech companies such as UPS, Caterpillar, and Ford when asked which businesses they believed had made a positive impact on the U.S. Courtesy SurveyMonkey (click for a larger version) To conduct the survey, SurveyMonkey polled 13,882 American adults aged 18 and older, with respondents selected from among the nearly 3 million responses collected on SurveyMonkey’s platform on a daily basis. They were asked to evaluate the Fortune 500’s top 75 companies based on a set of five questions, with each company rated by approximately 550 respondents. The survey was conducted online from between June 12 and 19, 2017, and the results were weighed based on U.S. Census Bureau data to reflect the demographic composition of the U.S. You can read more about the survey here. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership Donald Trump, millennials March Networks launches hybrid video recording platform Hashtag Trending - EU wants China-like Internet censorship, Apple dethroned as the world’s second largest smartphone brand About Eric Emin Wood Former IT World Canada associate editor turned consultant with public relations firm Porter Novelli. When not writing for the tech industry enjoys photography, movies, travelling, the Oxford comma, and will talk your ear off about animation if you give him an opening. Follow Follow @ericewood on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: HP Tracking the impact of a low-carbon business model The critical first move; Coaching the young ones to find their joy Sponsored By: Epson Gearing the banking experience to the customer of tomorrow Hashtag Trending – Nude photo hacker sentenced; Apple buys AR startup; Google calls BS on Trump’s conspiracy theory Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada