https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-google-staff-stage-walkout-www-inventor-speaks-out-facebook-still-losing-european-users/411325
Hashtag Trending – Google staff stage walkout; WWW inventor speaks out; Facebook still losing European users | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Google staff stage walkout; WWW inventor speaks out; Facebook still losing European users Shruti Shekar @shruti_shekar Published: November 2nd, 2018 Worldwide Google staff stage walkouts in protest, the inventor of the World Wide Web says tech giants might have to split up, and Facebook continues to lose users in Europe. Google staff walk out in protest over handling of sexual misconduct cases First up trending on Twitter, and basically everywhere else, yesterday hundreds of staff from Google’s office around the world staged a series of walkouts in protest over how sexual misconduct allegations are dealt with at the firm. The staff want Google to end forced arbitration and disclose harassment reports. They’re also asking for a better salary and additional transparency, with consistent misconduct reporting. The #MeToo style demonstration is in response to a New York Times report that revealed Google had suppressed allegations of sexual misconduct against several of its executives, including Andy Rubin, the creator of the company’s Android software. Father of Web says tech giants may have to be split up from technology Trending on Reddit, Tim-Berners Lee has a few things to say about Silicon Valley’s tech giants. The inventor of the World Wide Web says that giants like Facebook and Google have become so dominant that maybe it’s time to break them up. He says he’s disappointed with the state of the internet after several scandals involving the abuse of personal data and the spread of hate through social media. He says: “Before breaking them up, we should see whether they are not just disrupted by a small player beating them out of the market, but by the market shifting, by the interest going somewhere else.” Finally trending on LinkedIn, remember about a week ago when Morgan Stanley said Facebook could lose up to three million European Union users? Well in its Q3 earnings, Facebook says it continued to lose users in Europe for the second consecutive quarter. The trend comes from the Cambridge Analytica scandal. It saw two million monthly active users drop since the first quarter in addition to four million daily users. The stats are significant since most of Facebook’s users are from Europe. There was no growth in U.S. or Canada. Careers Google, hashtag trending, podcasts Cyber Security Today: Nov. 2, 2018 - FIFA breached again; Hack-o-lantern; Facebook approves fake ads Leveraging mobile for business success About Shruti Shekar Shruti Shekar is a video producer and reporter for IT World Canada. She was formerly a political reporter at The Hill Times and was based in Ottawa. Her beats included political culture, lobbying, telecom and technology, and the diplomatic community. She was also was the editor of The Lobby Monitor, and a reporter at The Wire Report; two trade publications that are part of The Hill Times. She received a MA in journalism from Western University and a double BA honours in communication studies and human rights from Carleton University. She was born in India, grew up mostly in Singapore and currently resides in Canada. Follow Follow @shruti_shekar on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada