https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/sapphire-now-combining-o-data-and-x-data-is-next-frontier-in-business/417820
SAPPHIRE NOW: Combining O-Data and X-Data is "next frontier" in business | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Digital Transformation SAPPHIRE NOW: Combining O-Data and X-Data is “next frontier” in business Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: May 7th, 2019 ORLANDO – Many of the newest and fastest growing companies in the world today – like Uber Technologies Inc. and WeWork – are highly focused on the experience for its customers, and this is a strategy that Bill McDermott, chief executive officer of SAP SE, says needs to be more heavily invested in by businesses across the board in his keynote speech to kick off Sapphire Now in Orlando, Florida. As businesses turn their focus towards the experience more and more often, combining O-data (operational data) and X-data (experience data) is the “next frontier” says McDermott. “Experience is now the organizing principle of the global economy. Every CEO I meet is trying to solve the experience gap,” he said. “What is it? It’s the difference between what people expect versus what they actually received. This is a $1.6 trillion problem.” This is something that McDermott said SAP had to do themselves before ever looking to help its customers do so. “SAP is already the richest source of operational data, what we call old data. But we didn’t have experience data, what we call X-Data,” said McDermott. “Ladies and gentlemen, feelings matter. In our own business, X-data was disorganized at best or nonexistent at worst. This led us to the conclusion that SAP must be the platform that combines X-data and O-data.” This revelation is what led to SAP’s acquisition of Qaultrics, an experience management company, this past November. McDermott says he saw a perfect relationship between the two companies, as he saw a great opportunity to provide SAP’s customers with the experience management tools that Qualtrics has created, and saw an executive who saw the importance of combining X-data and O-data in Ryan Smith, the co-founder and CEO of Qualtrics. “When you think about SAP C/4HANA, for example, bringing the experience from the external customer into the internal CRM system is something that competition doesn’t have. The same is true of human capital management. So we’re going to bring in the experience layer into all of the applications at the front end of these business processes,” said McDermott. While it is easier for new companies to turn towards experience data, Smith says it is still very possible for established companies to go down that road, and he believes this can be done through the offerings that SAP and Qualtrics provide. “If you actually think about that, most of these breakthrough brands, they’re naturally leading with experience management, which is a scary time for the other brands. It’s hard because they’re already established,” said Smith. “So with XM in the platform, we can actually deliver that into the cycles. Now, what do you do once you get the system in place, you start closing the gaps, one by one. Then you start taking action in a way that that is actually driving change. Our goal is not to gather insight. We’ve done that for years. Our goal is to allow a brand to take action. If you take 75 actions in a year because of Qualtrics, that’s successful. And that’s the difference between XM, is when you get that next data, you can actually drive action. And those are the actions that actually make the breakthrough.” Buckley Smith’s travel and accommodations to cover SAPPHIRE NOW were paid for by SAP. This story was not reviewed externally before publication. Cloud, Digital Transformation customer experience, Qualtrics, SAP Google releases Google Pixel 3a and Pixel 3a XL for the midrange market Hashtag Trending - Google announces new smartphones, better Google Assistant and Google Lens About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content COVID-19 crisis could spur on digital transformation Fixing ‘unmanageable’ Phoenix system will take roughly a year, says SAP SAP selected by government to test a replacement for Phoenix pay system Cisco Customer Experience Center in photos Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada