https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/montreals-stradigi-ai-raises-53-million/423984
Montreal's Stradigi AI raises $53 million | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers IT Workplace Montreal’s Stradigi AI raises $53 million IT World Canada Staff @itworldca Published: November 14th, 2019 By Catherine Morin Stradigi AI, a Montreal-based artificial intelligence provider and research lab, this week announced that it had closed a $53 million in Series A funding round led by Fonds de solidarité FTQ and Investissement Québec. In addition to the two institutional funds’ collective investment of $26.4 million, financing came from Cossette Inc., Holdun Family Office, Segovia Capital, and Stradigi AI’s co-founders Basil Bouraropoulos and Curtis Gavura. The company intends to use the influx of capital to accelerate expansion in the North American market and to support the development of Stradigi’s AI platform, Kepler. Kepler is a software-as-a-service (SaaS) offering, combining software engineering and machine learning algorithms to help businesses such as banks, insurers, and retailers leverage AI to become more efficient. Basil Bouraropoulos, chief executive officer and co-founder of Stradigi AI, sees Investissement Québec (IQ) and the Fonds de solidarité FTQ (the Fonds) as ideal partners to support the company’s growth strategy. Related: Global tech product regulatory policies are ‘10 innovation cycles’ behind, says expert “As two of the most respected institutional funds in Canada with diverse portfolios and deep experience with preparing companies for international growth, IQ and the Fonds will bring tremendous value as we execute our strategy to become one of the top three leading platforms in North America,” he declared. To support this expansion, Stadigi AI is looking to bolster its existing team with 50 newly created positions in marketing, research, sales, and software over the next year. “We are committed to investing in Quebec’s thriving AI ecosystem, which is why we feel it is so important to help home-grown success stories like Stradigi AI to expand both here and beyond our borders,” noted Guy LeBlanc, CEO, Investissement Québec. Fonds de solidarité FTQ vice president for investments Emil Savov added: “Having spent the last few years building Kepler, Stradigi AI is very well-positioned to develop its North American foothold to meet growing customer demand. To ensure the future of the AI sector in Québec, this expertise must be further aligned with commercial and strategic goals, which is one of the reasons the Fonds is investing in Stradigi AI.” Founded in 2005, Stradigi AI has become one of the largest AI laboratories in Canada. Last month, the company formed a strategic alliance with the professional services network KPMG. This partnership aims to enable both organizations to pursue new business opportunities together by delivering scalable AI solutions as one team. In May, Stradigi AI had announced the appointment of American rapper Will.i.am, also a tech entrepreneur and AI specialist, to the role of AI Advisor, Bias and Ethics, and his nomination to the advisory board. Will.i.am is also an investor in the company. Careers, IT Workplace AI, stradigi Hashtag Trending - Github launches mobile app; Google under federal inquiry; Bell complains about internet wholesale rates Experts call for adoption of framework to ensure stability in cyberspace Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content The bad guys are arming themselves with AI, but so are we, says Darktrace’s country manager for Canada 10 women advancing AI in Canada Gartner says nearly half of privacy compliance technology to rely on AI by 2023 Inflection Point I An interview with AltaML’s managing director about AI’s role in shaping Calgary’s digital future Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada