https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/sector-2018-make-better-use-of-logs-to-improve-security/409555
SecTor 2018: Make better use of logs to improve security, staff satisfaction | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Photo by Howard Solomon Privacy & Security SecTor 2018: Make better use of logs to improve security, staff satisfaction Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: October 3rd, 2018 The “secret ingredient” to improving enterprise security is right under your nose: Making better use of the logs that hardware and software spew out daily. That’s the argument Shira Shamban, head of security research at vendor Dome9 Security, which makes cloud visibility solutions, made Tuesday at the annual SecTor conference in Toronto. Shira Shamban of Dome9 Security “This is the most important security tool for us.” In fact, unusually for a vendor. Shamban said the makers of hardware and software products are driving infosec pros out of the industry because what the sell isn’t making organizations more secure. “We’re losing the race” with attackers,” she complained. “The average enterprise in 2016 had more than 70 security solutions installed in their network. Now it’s 80,” but four out of five of security pros believe their organization will be breached. “Why do we do keep installing more security solutions? “ she asked. “They not giving us the feeling of confidence and security that we’re looking for. We’re doing something wrong.” Related Articles Why log management is absolutely critical for IT security Every organization, regardless of size, needs secure IT and company budgets usually evidence awareness of that need. While working with... October 15th, 2015 Robert Cordray @robertcordray Crash logs can be mined for evidence of attacks, says security vendor Windows error reports are spewed out daily from systems and usually ignored by most organizations. But a security vendor says... February 19th, 2014 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC The average SOC analyst is bombarded with alerts and dashboards, Shamban said. They doesn’t help IT do their job. “Stop buying products that are not helping us to do security better,” she asked managers. Small wonder analysts leave after a year or two, she said. The “feel very, very unsatisfied with what they do, and it’s partly our fault because we don’t equip them with the right tool … We’re not helping them .. We’re making their life more miserable. … they have no sense of accomplishment, they just hate it.” While logs have a wealth of event information that needs to be exploited, Shamban said she hears many excuses from infosec pros why they’re ignored: ‘I have anti-virus.’ … ‘I keep all my logs, I think.’ … ‘I only use default configuration.’ Yet 80 per cent of security problems repeat themselves, she pointed out, which is why log analysis is so important. “We need to solve the 80 per cent once and for all, so the rest of the time the security engineers do really cool, interesting and complicated stuff.” “Logs let us see blind spots we were not aware of … What should you be doing with logs? First, Shamban said, keep all logs, and keep them as long as you can – particularly because it can take months or longer to detect a breach. Cloud storage is cheap, she added. Different logs give a different perspective on an event, she also said. Any security solution that prevents the security team from streaming a log into a database or a security information and event management system (SIEM) a log bad, she said. Anomaly detection – even if it is automated with algorithms– isn’t enough, Shamban said, because analysts have to be trained in statistical analysis. Finally, the user interface of the log collection solution (SIEM or otherwise) has to be suitable: What was detected, what was the problem, why is it a problem and how it should be solved. Forget about numbers the dashboard throws up. Is 95 per cent out of 100 good? It’s about what is safe, she said, and what is not safe. Shamban also emphasized the importance of prevention (security awareness training, two- or multi-factor authentication, access control) and detection (monitoring login patterns, CPU usage, outbound traffic etc.) strategies for thorough cyber security. Comb logs – if necessary hire an expert – and make a cluster of the most common 10 events, she said. Find an automated solution. Then work on the next 10. Use machine learning to decide if a problem in that second group is similar to one in the first 10. If so, there’s already an auto-remediation. If not, then it can be escalated for a support staffer to deal with. “You need to love your logs,” Shamban concluded. “When you wake up in the morning you need to think of new ways to use your logs. When you go to sleep, after kissing your wife or husband, think about new stuff to do with our logs.” In addition to better security, she added, this will make the infosec team feel like “effective people who make a difference in your company’s security.” Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security SecTor, security strategies Cyber Security Today: Oct. 3, 2018 --Cover your ports, a huge U.K. bank fine and more advice to stay secure Amazon launches new Fire TV devices for Canadian market About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada