https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/rcmp-charges-two-in-montreal-over-bell-customer-data-theft/422667
RCMP charges two in Montreal over Bell customer data theft | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Public Sector RCMP charges two in Montreal over Bell customer data theft Tom Li @itworldca Published: October 9th, 2019 RCMP arrested two Montrealers on charges of stealing Bell customer data. Nana Koranteng and Jesiah Russel-Francis were arrested by RCMP on Oct. 8th, 2019, on charges of unauthorized use of a computer, fraud over $5000, conspiracy to commit fraud, laundering proceeds of crime, identity theft, and identity fraud. In 2018, RCMP initiated an investigation after being notified that several Bell customer accounts were accessed and information was stolen. The suspects were identified and apprehended after they used the stolen customer information to make online purchases. In an email to IT World Canada, the RCMP revealed that approximately 97,000 customer accounts were accessed. The total damage of the fraud was valued at around $40,000. The suspects were acting out of individual interest and were not a part of a larger criminal activity. The RCMP has declined to comment on the attack method. “This is a textbook example of a hacking case where stolen personal data was used to purchase hardware material,” wrote Alexandre Beaulieu, acting officer in charge of the RCMP Cybercrime Investigative Team at National Division. “I’m proud of the work of our investigators as they worked diligently with our partners to prosecute these crimes which have an impact on our country’s economic well-being.” The National Division Cybercrime Investigative Team was created in 2016 to combat cybercrime in Canada. It has conducted investigations with local and international governments and law enforcement agencies. Bell did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Public Sector Bell, Bell Canada, Canada, Canadian government, Cyber Security, cyber security awareness month, Cybercrime Unanswered questions in TransUnion Canada data breach SecTor 2019: How to survive a ransomware attack About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Canadian ICT spending could shrink by 5 per cent in 2020: IDC A quick guide for businesses navigating Canada’s COVID-19 Economic Response Plan Bell, Rogers, Telus and others temporarily remove internet data caps Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada