https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/td-bank-opens-new-operations-hub-in-toronto/423440
TD Bank opens new operations hub in Toronto | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Privacy & Security TD Bank opens new operations hub in Toronto Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: October 31st, 2019 Among a swath of other news at TD’s annual TD Tech Day event in Toronto, the bank announced a new 9,000 square foot facility called the TD Fusion Centre that will serve as the enterprise’s threat defense hub. The staff at the facility – which will be a combination of experts in cybersecurity, fraud management, incident response, investigations, physical security, legal and compliance – will be tasked with improving the detection and prevention of enterprise threats, proactively identifying new threats, and better enabling an incident response capability for the enterprise. TD says it hopes to attract cybersecurity talent as well. “Safeguarding our customers’ trust is a top priority,” Clark Smith, TD’s head of cyber fraud threat management, said in a press release. “Bringing together diverse expertise from across our organization will help enable us to boost intelligence detection capabilities, enhance incident response speed and realize faster and more efficient mitigation, which we believe will enable us to be more predictive and proactive in the evolving cyber threat landscape.” The facility will feature the Development Automation Analysis Research and Testing Environment (DART) Room, which will allow investigators to perform testing in an environment that simulates a recreation of TD’s enterprise IT environment, and The Forensic Room, which will be used to dissect evidence and build an effective chain of custody while conducting cyber investigations. TD adding AI-powered financial advice to its app, among other announcements TD Bank Group is bringing AI-powered financial advice to its app with its new MyTD feature. Leveraging AI models from Layer 6 – the AI startup that was acquired by TD in January 2018 – customers will be given personalized and contextual financial advice based on their spending patterns and account balances. “As more of our customers engage with us through our digital platforms, we are evolving to provide more personalized experiences across all our channels and the MyTD experience will be a significant evolution of our digital customer journey to date,” said Rizwan Khalfan, TD’s chief digital and payments officer, said in a press release. “Combining the power of AI with our mobile app will help us anticipate customers’ needs so we can provide the right information at the right time in a seamless way – with the goal of helping customers feel more confident about their financial decisions.” This new feature follows other recent additions to TD’s digital offerings such as TD My Spend, its spending tracker feature, and TD Clari, its AI-powered chatbot, as well as other tech developments like its new credit card blocking features, and its selection of Microsoft Azure as its cloud provider. TD helping cleantech startups An expansion to TD’s Patents for Startups program – which helps startups in the seed stage through the patent process via funding and consulting – will now see it helping cleantech startups with their patents in collaboration with TD Sustainable Future Lab accelerator in Waterloo. Unlike similar programs, through this program, startups will be the sole owners of the patents and retain all rights to the underlying technology. “This next phase of the patents program is our latest step towards helping young Canadian innovators thrive,” said Josh Death, TD’s intellectual property and patentable innovations lead, in a press release. “Welcoming cleantech startups to the program will help Canadian talent be leaders in addressing some of the world’s most pressing problems.” The first startup accepted to the program is Advanced Materials & Propulsion Engineering & Research (AMPERe), an Oakville-based firm developing a more cost-efficient and environmentally-friendly single stroke combustion engine. Analytics for non-profits A new initiative from TD called TD Mindpower: Analytics for Social Good, which completed a pilot project in the spring of 2019, was announced to help non-profits leverage analytics to improve their community reach. Non-profits will have access to a team of TD data and analytics employees who will be volunteering their time to help those organizations discover new insights in their data. “Data and analytics will be key to our economy, and the ability to turn data into insights is critical for both organizations and individuals to thrive in the future,” says Peter Husar, Vice President, Analytics Strategy and Planning, Enterprise Data and Analytics, TD. “We’ve made great progress in how we use data to serve our customers better, and we’re committed to using our expertise to support our communities as well. Through TD Mindpower, non-profit organizations can access advanced data analytics capabilities to help grow their community impact in a sustainable way, and our colleagues gain meaningful professional experience through skills-based volunteering.” Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Privacy & Security analytics, artificial, artificial intelligence, cleantech, TD Bank Group Twitter says it will no longer accept political advertising on its platform Fortinet program that retrains military vets to tackle cyber threats grows in Canada About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Analytical disease tracking has come a long way since SARS, said SAS’s director of government practice Inflection Point I An interview with AltaML’s managing director about AI’s role in shaping Calgary’s digital future Landing that dream data scientist position OpenText Enfuse 2019: The Carbonite acquisition, new apps, and updates Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada