https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-google-tackles-covid-19-with-new-website-microsoft-teams-goes-down-bill-gates-exits-microsofts-board/428550
Hashtag Trending - Google tackles COVID-19 with new website; Microsoft Teams goes down; Bill Gates exits Microsoft's board | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Google tackles COVID-19 with new website; Microsoft Teams goes down; Bill Gates exits Microsoft’s board Staff @itworldca Published: March 17th, 2020 Google says it’s building a national coronavirus website in the U.S., Microsoft Teams goes down just as people settle in to work from home, and Bill Gates exits Microsoft’s board of directors. During an outbreak, it’s crucial to have reliable information as close to real-time as possible. Google says it’s building a U.S. national coronavirus website that will provide information about COVID-19 symptoms, risk and testing. The announcement comes shortly after President Donald Trump said Google was working on a website that would have capabilities similar to the ones previously mentioned. After his announcement, Google clarified that it was its sister company Verily that was developing the website for the Bay Area, not the entire nation. The Verge recently reported that the website will be accessible by anybody as a result of Trump’s press conference. Microsoft Teams goes down just as Europe logs on to work remotely from technology Just as the world began to settle in for a full day of remote work, Microsoft Teams crashed for more than two hours across Europe. The popular chat and communications tool was down for thousands of workers who signed into the service amid the growing coronavirus pandemic. “We’ve taken steps to address an issue that a subset of our customers may have experienced. Our engineering teams continue to actively monitor performance and usage trends,” a Microsoft spokesperson told the Verge. Combine this with the fact that Xbox Live was experiencing major disruptions over the weekend, and you got some angry social distancers. And lastly, news that Bill Gates is stepping down from Microsoft’s board continues to make waves on social media. Gates and Paul Allen founded the company in 1975. In a blog post, Gates wrote he made the decision to “dedicate more time to philanthropic priorities including global health and development, education, and my increasing engagement in tackling climate change.” That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Alex Coop, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Only a select few are allowed to build apps related to COVID-19, says Apple Tips on CASL compliance and how to avoid being fined Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada