https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/lyft-to-offer-discounted-rides-to-get-toronto-and-ottawa-voters-to-polls-this-election/422649
Lyft to offer discounted rides to get Toronto and Ottawa voters to polls this election | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Mobility Lyft to offer discounted rides to get Toronto and Ottawa voters to polls this election Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: October 8th, 2019 Lyft will be offering 50 per cent off to the Toronto and Ottawa voters on their rides to the polls on Oct. 21, 2019. The code VOTE1021CA can be used by voters throughout the Greater Toronto and Hamilton area, and in Ottawa to avail this offer. The ridesharing company is doing this in an attempt to eliminate barriers to voting this election. The company did the same during the U.S. midterm elections in August 2018. “In the 2015 federal election, 48% of non-voters cited health concerns and the demands of everyday life as a reason for not casting a ballot. Of these non-voters, 12% reported having an illness or disability and 23% reported being too busy,” Lyft wrote on its website. Lyft is also working with local partners to provide free rides to polls on election day for people who have trouble getting there because of a disability or an illness. The company has partnered with United Way Greater Toronto to distribute these free rides to the people who need and deserve them the most. In addition, Lyft has partnered with Apathy is Boring to provide free rides to youth (18-34 years of age) with mobility issues in order to get as many youths to the polls on the day of the election as possible. “Apathy is Boring believes in reducing barriers to getting youth to the polls on Election Day and that partnering with Lyft will make travel for the youth who need it, more affordable,” says Daniele-Jocelyne Otou, communications manager for Apathy is Boring. Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility Election, federal, Lyft, ridesharing What is the Microsoft SQ1 chip? Surface Pro X's secret explained Cyber Security Today - Cancer hospital chain breached again, security advice, new Instagram feature and patches to watch for. About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Ridesharing services could soon replace personal vehicles, according to Accenture study Hashtag Trending – Facebook’s new business venture, IT safeguards from Elections Canada, Uber’s new safety system Be skeptical of all online content, Canadians warned as election campaign starts Lyft is coming to Vancouver by the end of the year Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada