https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-torontos-big-data-conference-facebook-glitch-makes-private-posts-public-goodbye-to-memes/406107
Hashtag Trending – Toronto's Big Data conference; Facebook glitch makes private posts public; goodbye to memes? | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Public Sector Hashtag Trending – Toronto’s Big Data conference; Facebook glitch makes private posts public; goodbye to memes? Eric Emin Wood @ericewood Published: June 11th, 2018 4000 participants will be descending onto the 6ix this week for the Big Data Toronto Conference and Expo. A Facebook glitch briefly made private posts public. And new copyright legislation proposed by the European Union could make memes illegal. On Tuesday June 12 and Wednesday June 13, Hogtown’s Metro Convention Centre will play host to the Big Data Toronto 2018 Conference and Expo. According to the event website, the conference will feature 100 speakers, 60 brands including Environics, OVH, and SAS, and expects to educate 4000 visitors about how and why they should incorporate predictive analytics, advanced machine learning, data governance, privacy, cybersecurity, the Internet of Things, digital transformation, cloud analytics, and cloud computing into their business strategies. Trending on LinkedIn because Facebook killed its trending news feature: Facebook has admitted that around 14 million users were affected by a privacy glitch that automatically made their private status updates public. The social media giant issued an apology on Thursday for the bug, which changed the settings in certain user accounts so that people who thought they were making private updates may have posted them publicly. According to the company, only posts from between May 18 and May 22 were affected, and the bug was fully corrected by May 27. Affected users are being notified as I speak. Finally, trending on Reddit: A campaign calling itself Copyright 4 Creativity is warning that if implemented, the European Union’s proposed Copyright Directive could destroy a cornerstone of the modern internet: The meme. At issue is Article 13, which states that platform providers should “take measures to ensure the functioning of agreements concluded with rights-holders for the use of their works” – which could include a ban on screen captures of said work with funny captions added. Opponents of a meme-free internet have less than two weeks to call, email, or tweet their opposition to the Directive and especially Article 13 before it’s put to a vote on June 20th or 21st. If you’re not sure what to say, visit Copyright 4 Creativity for some templates. Or just retweet me. I refuse to be objective about this topic. Fight for your right to meme! https://t.co/OUbX4rf9Rz #CensorshipMachine #SaveYourInternet — Eric Emin Wood (@EricEWood) June 11, 2018 Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Public Sector copyright, copyright laws, European Union, Facebook, hashtag trending, meme, podcasts G7 vows to work with ISPs, social media to fight abuse of personal data by 'foreign actors' Build privacy controls into IoT devices now, report urges About Eric Emin Wood Former IT World Canada associate editor turned consultant with public relations firm Porter Novelli. When not writing for the tech industry enjoys photography, movies, travelling, the Oxford comma, and will talk your ear off about animation if you give him an opening. Follow Follow @ericewood on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada