https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/can-low-code-platforms-solve-legacy-gridlock/425115
Can low code platforms solve legacy gridlock? | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Software Can low code platforms solve legacy gridlock? Cindy Baker @itworldca Published: December 12th, 2019 Half of IT leaders say legacy systems are holding them back on digital transformation. Traditional software is time-consuming and expensive to build, said Michael Douglas, Product Marketing Manager with OutSystems at a recent ITWC webinar. But there’s a way out of the gridlock, he said. “Low code is a cheap and effective way to build software and it’s eight to ten times faster than coding,” said Douglas. A low code platform allows developers to create applications in a visual “drag and drop environment using ready-made components.” Webinar on demand: Legacy technology as an enabler of digital transformation? Organizations are increasingly using low code platforms to craft applications even for complex solutions, said Douglas. Gartner expects that by 2024, 65 per cent of all software will include low code. Everyone needs faster app delivery Businesses today face massive challenges in their transformation efforts, said Douglas. Most CIOs say they have a two to three-year backlog of applications waiting to be built. “They’re unable to deliver what the business unit needs and the business unit goes off and purchases their own thing,” Douglas said. As a result of the project backlog, there is no time to innovate. According to the cybersecurity firm, Kaspersky, almost half of organizations still rely on unsupported or near end-of-life operating systems. They’re spending their time “keeping the lights on”, which also makes it hard to attract new talent, said Douglas. Threats from disruptors and increased customer demands are adding to the pressure. Douglas pointed to an insurance technology startup called Lemonade. “It’s changing the way customers think about insurance by providing zero paperwork and instant everything,” he said. Lemonade uses AI to settle claims in three seconds. Younger customers, in particular, won’t wait for service from organizations that can’t move as quickly because of their disjointed legacy systems, said Douglas. In a startup like Lemonade, services are architected around what the customer needs rather than a big monolithic system. Many organizations try to deal with the problem by putting “a shiny new app on the front end,” said Douglas. “But putting a shiny new app on to legacy is like putting lipstick on a pig. It’s still a pig at the end of the day, right?” Low code is high speed To break out of this jam, organizations should tackle “bite-sized chunks” by using low code development to replace specific functionality. The low code approach uses pre-built templates and integrations to create applications faster. “It’s a full-stack enterprise application development platform that allows you to build front or back-end applications or middleware,” said Douglas. “There is really no use case that we can’t address.” With the low code platform, organizations can make changes within a matter of hours, Douglas said. “They can adjust to customer feedback very quickly.” The approach has been adopted by a wide range of companies. Douglas pointed to a snowboard retailer that used low code to design a new application to connect sales points to back end systems. “Their systems were not talking to each other and that meant there was a lot of inventory leftover at the end of the season,” said Douglas. “They built the app in one-third of the time they had expected and got ten times the ROI with a real-time inventory system. You can reinvent your business with these tools.” Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Software applications, digital transformation, legacy, low code, Outsystems, security LG G8X ThinQ Dual Screen experience review: just try it TikTok hiring country manager for Canada About Cindy Baker Cindy Baker has over 20 years of experience in IT-related fields in the public and private sectors, as a lawyer and strategic advisor. She is a former broadcast journalist, currently working as a consultant, freelance writer and editor. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity CIOs worry about people, capacity and security as COVID-19 crisis grows How to stonewall the hackers trying to to get around your MFA Why pizza party security training doesn’t cut it anymore Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada