https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/planning-for-a-successful-ai-journey/414199
Planning for a successful AI journey | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Planning for a successful AI journey Gartner @Gartner_inc Published: January 16th, 2019 By Jamie Popkin, Gartner, Inc. Today cars are the norm, but it took decades for the automobile to develop from an idea to the car-oriented life we now lead. Similarly, the idea for artificial intelligence emerged more than 60 years ago but will likely take another 60 years to be woven into the fabric of modern life. As will be discussed during the upcoming Gartner IT Symposium/Xpo in Toronto, most CEOs recognize that AI will be critical to their business, but few enterprises have yet to undertake AI initiatives. A Gartner CIO survey found only four per cent of respondents had deployed AI in their organizations. AI has remarkable potential, but such an immature technology also poses severe risks for those investing in it. Key Takeaways for CIOs AI can solve business problems today if you develop applications carefully. But don’t let early success mislead you. Instead, recognize that we’re in the pioneering era. In the long run, you’ll get more value out of what you learn about AI than from the uses it addresses today. As the technology matures, the more obsolete today’s applications, uses and AI-driven business models will become. AI is still immature across key dimensions of its future function and capabilities. It’s heavily focused on core generic technologies like graphical processing units, deep neural networks and natural-language processing. A rapid set of improvement cycles will occur as AI develops, along with a diffusion of the core technology. This will result in a vast array of everyday products and services. Over the next 75 years, we’ll see multiple generations of the AI industry, spawning new uses, markets, and possibly industries. Planning for the future Your strategic planning process today needs to have a forward-looking perspective for the long journey ahead. Inspire the executive team to ask, “What will our use of AI look like in another 60 years?” Zoom out your strategic planning lens to seven – 10 years to avoid hyperlocal planning horizons. Otherwise, R&D, business planning and investment decisions may be negatively affected. Why is it hard to plan on long timescales? Most strategic planning processes are short-term relative to a 75-year cycle. They focus on three- to five-year strategic business plans, two-year budgeting cycles and quarterly financial results. An extended planning horizon will help you avoid several common pitfalls: Failure to build required competencies Over-investment in short-lived products and architectures Opportunity costs of flawed decisions or investments Inability to detect and interpret important technical, social, economic and political events that will determine the course of AI over time Jamie Popkin is a Distinguished VP analyst in the Office of the CIO research team of Gartner Research. Mr. Popkin covers digital business transformation topics, and data and analytics strategy for the CIO. Artificial Intelligence CIO strategies, machine learning Hashtag Trending - U.S. police can’t unlock phones; AirPod charging case; Listen App for podcasts Canada is a prime target for cybersecurity attacks in 2019 About Gartner Gartner, Inc. (NYSE: IT) is the world's leading information technology research and advisory company. We deliver the technology-related insight necessary for our clients to make the right decisions, every day. We are the valuable partner to clients in over 9,000 distinct enterprises worldwide. Founded in 1979, Gartner is headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, USA, and has 6,400 associates, including more than 1,480 research analysts and consultants, and clients in 85 countries. For more information, email info@gartner.com or visit www.gartner.com. Follow Follow @Gartner_inc on Twitter Facebook Join Gartner on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Inflection Point I An interview with AltaML’s managing director about AI’s role in shaping Calgary’s digital future Landing that dream data scientist position Databricks opens major engineering centre in Toronto – why that’s a big deal for Canada AI is transforming the oil and gas industry: Insights from one of Canada’s largest producers Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada