https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-gatwicks-drone-delays-in-russia-ai-hears-you-lgs-clear-tv-2/413384
Hashtag Trending – Gatwick's drone delays, in Russia AI hears you, LG's clear TV | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Gatwick’s drone delays, in Russia AI hears you, LG’s clear TV Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: December 21st, 2018 London’s Gatwick airport is disrupted by drones. Russian scientists can train AI to hear like a human. And what’s it like to play games on a transparent television? “On behalf of everyone at Gatwick I would like to repeat how sorry we are for the inconvenience this criminal behaviour has caused passengers…" Read the full statement from our CEO, Stewart Wingate. https://t.co/M47tA37itJ pic.twitter.com/FB5nHOlHe5 — Gatwick Airport LGW (@Gatwick_Airport) December 20, 2018 Trending on Twitter, London’s Gatwick Airport was forced to halt flights after drones were spotted flying over the airfield. As of last night in London, Gatwick was still advising passengers not to travel to the airport as a result. A message from CEO Stewart Wingate apologizes to passengers for the inconvenience. He also says the drone flights were designed to close the airport and cause disruption with the busy Christmas season. Beyond this closure, the airline industry is going to have to find a way to deal with drones. The British Airline Pilots Association reports 117 near misses between manned aircraft and drones up to November of this year, which is a 58 per cent increase over last year. There are a lot of anti-drone solutions that other airports have come up with that Gatwick could consider, including trained eagles. I don’t know how effective that would be, but it would be pretty cool. Trending on Google, Russian scientists want to give artificial intelligence the ability of human hearing. According to the Business Standard, a team from Peter the Great St. Petersburg Polytechnic University has developed a way for a computer to distinguish one voice among many in a crowded room. The technique models the auditory nerve of mammals and the nervous system process for filtering information. The research could lead to better medical devices that restore hearing. Or maybe it will just make Alexa better at hearing your commands when you’re having a party. Trending on Youtube, gaming on LG’s transparent OLED display. In this video, sponsored by LG, we get a look at what Doom and Assassin’s Creed look like on this clear TV screen. It’s certainly a unique effect, but I’m not sure why anyone really needs their living room. Here’s what Linus had to say about it: Careers Drones, hashtag trending, LG, podcasts Hashtag Trending - Gatwick’s drone delays, in Russia AI hears you, LG’s clear TV Cyber security predictions roundup for 2019 About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada