https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-unlimited-sick-days-for-amazon-workers-twitter-forcing-employees-to-work-from-home-u-s-bill-threatens-privacy/428418
Hashtag Trending - Unlimited sick days for Amazon workers; Twitter forcing employees to work from home; U.S. bill threatens privacy | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Unlimited sick days for Amazon workers; Twitter forcing employees to work from home; U.S. bill threatens privacy Staff @itworldca Published: March 13th, 2020 Amazon announces unlimited sick days for its workers, Twitter asks its employees to work from home, and a new U.S. bill aimed at protecting children might actually cause serious harm to free speech online. All hourly workers at Amazon are getting unlimited sick days and up to two weeks of pay for those diagnosed with COVID-19, the company announced this week. The announcement has led to a lot of chatter on LinkedIn about the various actions taken by large companies as it relates to the spreading virus. The tech giant has also opened a $35 million relief fund for delivery drivers and seasonal workers. Twitter is forcing its 4,900 employees to work from home from r/technology The story continues with Twitter forcing its nearly 5,000 employees to work from home. In a blog post, Twitter CEO said the move is a “responsibility to support our communities, and those who are vulnerable.” The company has said that it will continue to pay contractors and hourly workers who are not able to perform their duties while working from home. Twitter joins Google, which made a similar announcement earlier this week that it’s asked the majority of its workforce to work from home as well. One Redditor described the scene in San Francisco, a massive tech hub that headquarters a lot of these tech giants, as a ghost town. Others pointed to a silver lining. Another Redditor wrote “Guys, if we play this right we could accelerate office work culture in a decade overnight.” A sneaky attempt to end encryption is worming its way through Congress from r/technology And lastly, some trending news that doesn’t involve COVID-19. A back-and-forth argument about the EARN IT Act in the U.S. has emerged on Reddit. The proposed law, which would enforce standards to protect children from sexual exploitation online. has been met with tons of criticism from security experts, many of them suggesting the bill would erode end-to-end encryption. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace COVID-19, hashtag trending, podcasts, twitter The bad guys are arming themselves with AI, but so are we, says Darktrace's country manager for Canada Cyber Security Today - Avoid this COVID-19 map, get Wise about this phoney website, a big payday for crooks and women in cyber security Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Insulating your business from COVID-19 impacts TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada