https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cisco-and-hyundai-team-up-to-develop-secure-open-connected-car-network/400540
Cisco and Hyundai team up to develop connected car network at CES 2018 | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Managed Services & Outsourcing Privacy & Security Cisco and Hyundai team up to develop secure open connected car network Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Published: January 9th, 2018 Autonomous and connected cars are one of the hottest trends at this year’s Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, and both Cisco and Hyundai are on board. The two companies are combining forces to produce a next-generation in-vehicle network and layered security system that will be unveiled in Hyundai’s premium 2019 vehicles. The new platform uses a software-defined vehicle architecture that is both highly configurable and secure. This architecture weaves new software with legacy hardware for full end-to-end networking, which will allow for true sensor integration and high-speed services like 1 Gbps Ethernet. This will significantly increase in-vehicle bandwidth, the companies say in a Jan. 9 press release. With these capabilities, the platform will also enable “over-the-air updates”, which will help speed up the time it takes to bring new capabilities to market while also improving security and lowering costs. Additionally, the platform is also flexible enough to design and build new services, and “sets the stage” for new adaptive technologies. Related Stories NVIDIA to build its AI self-driving platform on BlackBerry QNX Hyundai and Kia will use Bell’s wireless network to offer connected services Seung-ho Hwang, executive vice president and head of Hyundai Motor Group’s auto intelligence business department, calls its collaboration with Cisco a “testament to our ‘open innovation’ spirit; one that will prepare us for continued leadership as transportation and mobility undergo an unprecedented evolution.” Hyundai and Cisco previously announced their intentions to disrupt the auto industry and develop a hyperconnected car with unique communication abilities in 2016. At the time, the companies pledged to create a “flexible and more secure platform that would offer a path to innovate and build on smart-vehicle solutions.” Now, the companies are laying the foundation for their “groundbreaking” open and highly secure platform and exploring new areas such as integration into Hyundai datacenters for real-time information and connecting cars to city infrastructure to communicate with lights and parking metres. “Cisco is pleased to bring a standards-based approach in partnership with the automotive industry; one that will help accelerate innovation and increase the value to the consumer,” says Ruba Borno, vice president of growth initiatives and chief of staff to the CEO at Cisco. “By creating a flexible, scalable, and secure platform, we are allowing automotive companies to deliver better cars – faster.” Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Managed Services & Outsourcing, Privacy & Security ces, CES 2018, Cisco, connected cars, Hyundai, software defined network TCL's BlackBerry KeyOne Bronze Edition is more than a change in colour TomTom launches new services and announces new partnerships with Baidu, Qualcomm, at CES About Mandy Kovacs Mandy is a lineup editor at CTV News. A former staffer at IT World Canada, she's now contributing as a part-time podcast host on Hashtag Trending. She is a Carleton University journalism graduate with extensive experience in the B2B market. When not writing about tech, you can find her active on Twitter following political news and sports, and preparing for her future as a cat lady. Follow Follow @MandyVKovacs on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cisco commits $225 million to COVID-19 response Cisco leadership undergoes another shuffle involving Amy Chang and David Goeckeler In response to COVID-19, Cisco is handing out free 90-day Webex business licenses RSA Conference: Democratize security, says Cisco official, and McAfee urges work on quantum-resistant solutions Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada