https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ford-partners-with-lyft-on-self-driving-cars-for-all/397021
Ford partners with Lyft on self-driving cars for all | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Wireless & IoT Ford partners with Lyft on self-driving cars for all Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: September 27th, 2017 Ford Motor Co. says it’s partnering with San Francisco-based transportation firm Lyft to deliver self-driving cars via requests from a mobile app. In a Medium post on Wednesday, Ford Vice-President of Autonomous Vehicles and Electrification Sherif Marakby announced the plans. Ford has previously said it wanted to deliver self-driving cars in on-demand service model by 2021, but this is the first time it’s named a partner in that space. There’s no clear timeline on when Lyft will go to market with the self-driving cars yet. “Someday, when you open the Lyft app during a period of high demand, Ford and Lyft software will need to be capable of quickly dispatching a self-driving vehicle so that you can get to your destination as quickly and as safely as possible,” Marakby writes. “Some view the opportunity with self-driving vehicles as a race to be first. But we are focusing our efforts on building a service based around actual people’s needs and wants.” Ford says that the goal is to deliver self-driving cars alongside Lyft’s human drivers. Safety comes first with this project, he makes clear. But the goal is to learn how Ford can best connect with a partner’s platform in order to dispatch a self-driving car on demand. It will also identify cities that are good candidates for access to self-driving cars based on data. Ford has been contemplating how self-driving cars might disrupt its business. Last March, Ford spun off a wholly-owned subsidiary called Ford Smart Mobility LLC so that it could compete like a startup. The company is exploring transportation options beyond car ownership and has participated in a series of experiments in London that direct drivers where they might be able to find parking, as well as a shuttle program in Dearborn, Mich. that allows on-demand ride requests. Related Ford Fusion paving the way for automation Ford’s acquisition of Pittsburgh-based startup Argo AI will play a role in this new partnership with Lyft, Marakby says. Its virtual driver system is the basis of Ford’s self-driving technology. It’s possible that Waterloo, Ont.-based BlackBerry will play a role in Ford’s path to a commercially viable fleet of self-driving cars. Last October, the companies announced a deal that would see BlackBerry’s QNX software embedded in future Ford vehicles. The deal was original because software like QNX would normally be embedded in a Tier 1 partner to automotive manufacturers, which design infotainment systems to be integrated into the cars. While Ford hasn’t commented much on the partnership with BlackBerry, working with them directly on how QNX is developed may signal it is interested in exploring other ways the software could be integrated into its cars. Further, QNX Neutrino is an OS that’s certified for self-driving systems to be built upon. We spoke to Ford about its self-driving plans at the Canadian International Auto Show in February. Watch that video here: Related Download Sponsor: BlackBerry The Top 8 Mobile Security Risks Register Now Wireless & IoT Ford, Lyft, self-driving cars SOTI CEO says he's making enterprise mobility for 'business critical' applications Drones, blockchain, and AI are future of insurance industry: Capgemini About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Ridesharing services could soon replace personal vehicles, according to Accenture study Lyft to offer discounted rides to get Toronto and Ottawa voters to polls this election Lyft is coming to Vancouver by the end of the year Trying on Ford’s Sleep Suit at the Canadian International Auto Show – All Hands on Tech Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada