https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/making-the-most-of-a-byod-world/406143
Making the most of a BYOD world | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Privacy & Security Making the most of a BYOD world Steve Proctor @itworldca Published: June 11th, 2018 Only a short time ago, organizations struggled with whether or not to allow their employees to use personal devices at work. In today’s digital workplace, with its proliferation of personal tablets, phones, wearables, and other computing devices, the question is less about whether or not this is a good idea, and more about how to cope with a wide array of mobile devices. Driving the acceptance of BYOD is a host of advantages for the organization. Not only does BYOD increase employee loyalty and morale – benefits most often touted by millennial-minded employers – but it also increases productivity and reduces the costs associated with equipping workers. Other major points in favour of BYOD include enhanced productivity, improved collaboration, decreased work delays, and providing employees with the freedom to work when and where it is most convenient. Questions about BYOD? Join the June 27 webinar Secure, efficient provisioning of BYOD One of the paradoxes of the human personality is that our greatest strengths are often our greatest weaknesses. The same holds true for BYOD. Wireless connections deliver a wealth of positive results, but they also subject the organization to new, and often transparent, vulnerabilities, increasing the difficulty of securing corporate data. Employee-owned devices also make it difficult to prevent data leakage, block unauthorized devices from the company network, and separate usage for work and usage for personal business. In our increasingly connected cyber workforce, this combines with the evolution of devices and cloud to create hurdles for those who manage and secure the mobile environment. With MarketsandMarkets pegging the adoption rate of BYOD at 50 percent for 2018, and Gartner’s hypothesis that 90% of organizations worldwide now have some aspect of BYOD mobile devices, it’s imperative that organizations of all sizes have a comprehensive mobile device management strategy. A BYOD solution that protects user privacy and critical business information is especially important for organizations in which BYOD has crept in over time with no accompanying corporate governance. According to a 2016 Avaya report, almost half of all North American workplaces had adopted BYOD, but only a few had a corresponding BYOD policy. As new devices continue to penetrate the workplace, cloud adoption, IoT, and artificial intelligence put new demands on those who manage IT infrastructure and operations. Leaders responsible for mobile are looking for a secure BYOD program that facilitates the registration and provisioning of devices, reduces costs, and maximizes the productivity and satisfaction of users. There are countless efficiencies and savings in tailoring usage policies to address the needs of the organization. Careers, Privacy & Security BlackBerry, BYOD, employee productivity Cyber Security Today: Another call for IoT privacy regulation, more on Atlanta’s ransomware recovery 3 ways the 'AI Leader of the Year' is using Data for Good About Steve Proctor Steve is Vice-President Marketing and Communication with ITWC. He spent 25 years in progressively senior positions as a journalist and editor with the Halifax Herald, with his final ten years as Business Editor. He has published two books and his freelance articles have appeared in national and regional magazines. He has led social media and communication efforts for two crowdfunding ventures and written and directed numerous dinner theatres for charitable endeavours. Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content BlackBerry releases updates to SecuSUITE for Government and AtHoc Crisis Communication BlackBerry report says data losses increasing due to cloud misconfiguration Blackberry launches Digital Workplace TCL Communication to discontinue sales of BlackBerry devices Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada