https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/acutenet-improves-patient-assessments-for-douglas-mental-health-ingenious-winner/410828
AcuteNet improves patient assessments for Montreal West Island Integrated University Health and Social Services Centre [Ingenious winner] | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Emerging Tech Public Sector AcuteNet improves patient assessments for Montreal West Island Integrated University Health and Social Services Centre [Ingenious winner] Meagan Simpson @megesimpson Published: November 6th, 2018 Mental health will affect one in five Canadians every year, and with so many people being treated there are large amounts of data being collected; however in many cases there are no standards around that collection, creating problems for healthcare providers offering support. One Montreal-based psychiatric hospital has found a software solution that has helped not only standardize its data, but improve treatment plans and increase admissions by 82 per cent. The Montreal West Island Integrated University Health and Social Services Centre, formerly known as Douglas Mental Health University Institute, is working with Toronto-based software company AcuteNet Inc. to create a standardized data collection and analysis system that has had significant, positive outcomes, helping the clinic improve its conformity rate for mental health patient treatments and meet provincial requirements that mandates care plans. By using AcuteNet’s software, the clinic was able to access a standardized data collection system that provides key assessments on psychiatric, social, environmental and medical issues at patient intake. The system, Resident Assessment Instrument for Mental Health (RAI) is intended to help mental health care providers with planning, quality improvement and measuring outcomes. It’s also the winner of the Not-for-profit category Ingenious Award hosted by the Information Technology Association of Canada. The Douglas Institute used the system and AcuteNet’s interRAI Clinical Assessment tool to automate personalized care plans and used the database to improve conformity across its platform. Gilbert Tremblay, psychologist and black belt lean Six Sigma agent, who helped the Douglas Institute get this clinical mental health program off the ground, says using the RAI data was important to the project but it would not have been possible without the applications from AcuteNet. He told ITWC that the RAI system has many complicated algorithms built in that the clinic would not have been able to use or calculate on its own. “If we had not had an application, the project would just not have happened.” Through the partnership with AcuteNet, Tremblay says he has seen significant improvements at the clinic, specifically in patient care. “Using the RAI and the [AcuteNet] application, we were able to raise the conformity rate percentage of our charts from eight per cent up to 50 per cent within the first 18 months.” The application also reduced the average length of stay and the need for control measures (such as medication, and physical restraints) by 10 per cent respectively and also increased the rate of admission by 50 per cent. One important reason the Douglas Institute used AcuteNet’s services for the project was because the application allowed it to add a customized algorithm, that the Douglas Institute used to automate the treatment plan process. According to Tremblay, no other application on the market offered this feature. Other key reasons included AcuteNet’s technology being fully bilingual, which was important for the clinic’s patients and staff as well as the cost of the application. A technology consumption model healthcare can afford As a software as a service provider (SaaS), AcuteNet offers its products on payment plans that Fariba Anderson, CEO of AcuteNet, says makes more sense for cash-strapped healthcare providers. “I basically realized, it was just a light bulb that went off in my head, that healthcare is the best place to bring the concept of the sharing economy among enterprises,” she told IT World Canada. Instead of charging customers per usage, the software companies offers its products like interRAI Clinical Assessment on monthly payment plan for unlimited usage that charges by patient, with the more patients a customer has, the less they pay per patient. Tremblay says this has made Acutenet’s application very appealing when comparing it to competitors. The partnership was already proven to be such a success that Tremblay says they have expanded the using the tool in two other facilities for outpatient psychiatric clinics. After implementing the data collection application at the second facility, the conformity rate was around 90 per cent in only four months. Tremblay told IT World Canada he hopes to continue to expand on the project and create further efficiencies using AcuteNet’s software, including developing a personalized dashboard that would be embedded in the application. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Emerging Tech, Public Sector compliance, healthcare, Ingenious Awards, Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) ComplyWorks builds custom contractor solution to instantly translate 100 languages [Ingenious winner] 5 Lessons from New Technology Leaders: Tara Mulrooney, Alberta Energy Regulator About Meagan Simpson Meagan Simpson is a Jr. staff writer for IT World Canada. A graduate of Carleton University’s journalism program, she loves sports, travelling, reading and photography, and when not covering tech news she can be found cuddled up on the couch with her cat and a good book. Follow Follow @megesimpson on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Azure NetApp files become HIPAA compliant Maple launches free online screening and consultation solution in response to COVID-19 Ottawa Hospital announces partnership to democratize its data throughout the organization Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada