https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/info-of-69000-phoenix-payees-sent-to-wrong-government-department/427433
Info of 69,000 Phoenix payees sent to wrong government department | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Public Sector Information belonging to 69,000 Phoenix payees sent to wrong department Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: February 18th, 2020 The information of 69,000 payees of the Phoenix pay system was a part of a data breach due to an email sent in error, according to a Feb. 17 statement posted by Public Services and Procurement Canada. As part of its regular distribution of reports outlining mispayments to the HR heads and CFOs of departments, earlier this month some of those reports, which included full names, home addresses, and payment details of over 69,000 government employees, were sent to more than 161 chief financial officers and 62 heads of human resources for the wrong departments. The files were encrypted and the recipients were asked to delete the mistaken email and files. Related: SAP among 3 companies competing to replace Phoenix The Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada was notified once the error was discovered, the affected employees will be notified in the coming days, and the practise of sending out the overpayment reports has been temporarily halted to allow for an investigation. The controversy-laden electronic payroll system is used by the Canadian government for its employees and was already infamous for widespread payroll errors since 2016, with some being overpaid, some underpaid, and some not paid at all for months at a time. At this time there have been no reports of the data being leaked to anyone outside the government. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Public Sector Phoenix, Phoenix pay system New categories, new opportunities for Canadian CIOs at 2020 CIO of the Year Awards Dell Technologies sells RSA to Symphony Technology Group consortium for over $2 billion About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Fixing ‘unmanageable’ Phoenix system will take roughly a year, says SAP SAP selected by government to test a replacement for Phoenix pay system SAP among 3 companies competing to replace Phoenix Hashtag Trending – Canada’s new digital charter, cybercrime gang busted, Phoenix pay system an expensive fix Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada