https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-tech-companies-condemns-uk-surveillance-proposal-amazon-removes-misinformation-iphones-are-trackers-galore/418585
Hashtag Trending – Tech companies condemns UK surveillance proposal; Amazon removes misinformation; iPhones are trackers galore | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Tech companies condemns UK surveillance proposal; Amazon removes misinformation; iPhones are trackers galore Tom Li @itworldca Published: May 31st, 2019 Tech companies condemn a new UK surveillance proposal, Amazon removes fake medical books, journalist finds 5,400 trackers on his iPhone. That’s all the news that’s trending today. It’s Friday, May 31st, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Reddit, tech companies have riled up against a UK surveillance proposal. The proposal, made by two senior UK intelligence officials, doesn’t ask the companies to break the encryption. Instead, it wants the app to send a copy of the encrypted message to a third party while in transit. Both WhatsApp and Apple have argued against this idea, stating that they would need to make fundamental changes to their apps or encryption algorithm and mislead users about chat participants. Trending on Reddit, In the most recent move to combat medical misinformation, Amazon removed a list of books that claimed drinking bleach could cure illnesses. These books contained instructions on brewing a bleach mixture and falsely claimed that they could cure malaria and autism. It’s crazy to even consider their effectiveness, but to completely eliminate their chance of hurting anyone, Amazon has decided to ban them permanently. Lastly, trending on LinkedIn, Geoffery Fowler, technology columnist for the Washington Post, discovered 5,400 trackers on his iPhone that skimmed his data in a single week. The trackers spawned from apps like Yelp, Microsoft OneDrive, Mint, Spotify, and even the publication he was working for. Disconnect, the privacy firm that helped Fowler discover these trackers, said that these trackers could be sending as much as 1.5GB of data per month if left unchecked. Fowler said that his findings are in direct contrast to Apple’s marketing, which touted that iPhone users’ information would stay on their devices. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Careers hashtag trending, podcasts Intel's Project Athena sets new guidelines for laptops of the future Cyber Security Today: Checkers restaurant chain hacked, hotel security management firm exposed and the cost of ransomware About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada