https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-huawei-cfo-to-sue-canada-google-bans-political-ads-apple-greenlights-aftermarket-iphone-batteries/415665
Hashtag Trending – Huawei CFO to sue Canada; Google bans political ads; Apple greenlights aftermarket iPhone batteries | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Huawei CFO to sue Canada; Google bans political ads; Apple greenlights aftermarket iPhone batteries Tom Li @itworldca Published: March 6th, 2019 Huawei CFO looking to sue the Canadian government; Google will ban political ads before the Canadian federal election; Apple is allowing third-party batteries in iPhones. Trending on Google, Huawei CFO Meng Wan Zhou is looking to sue the Canadian government and the RCMP. According to Meng, she was subjected to interrogation under the guise of a routine customs check. She also claims that her personal electronics were searched by a CBSA officer. Meng’s lawsuit says that she wasn’t given a reason for her detainment until 3 hours after being stopped at the Vancouver International Airport. Currently, Meng’s waiting on verdict from the B.C. Supreme Court on her extradition status to the United States, where she’ll be trialed for assisting in operating a shell company in Iran. Trending on Google again, Google is looking to ban political ads ahead of the Canadian federal election, citing that the new ad transparency rules are too hard to comply with. The bill Google is referring to is Bill C-76, also known as the Elections Modernization Act, which requires the company to keep a record of all political ads they publish. This is an attempt to curb fake news and manipulation on social media. According to Google Canada’s public policy counsel Jason Kee, accommodating this legislation would require the entire advertising marketplace to change, which is impossible before the election. Trending on Reddit, Apple is finally allowing third-party batteries in iPhones. Previously, a battery replacement performed by a third-party would automatically void the warranty. Apple’s new repair policy now instructs Apple authorized service providers to ignore the aftermarket battery and service any faulty part as normal. Battery replacement is one of the most common repairs as they lose their ability to retain their charge over time. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Careers hashtag, hashtag trending, podcasts MDR firm eSentire raises $47 million, plans to open new HQ in Waterloo RSA Conference 2019 keynotes: Protect trust, the bad in AI and embrace OT About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada