https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-apple-to-warn-customers-of-update-slowdowns-huawei-loses-ties-with-two-major-standards-organizations-facebook-refuses-to-remove-fake-pelosi-video/418389
Hashtag Trending – Apple to warn customers of update slowdowns; Huawei loses ties with two major standards organizations; Facebook refuses to remove fake Pelosi video | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Apple to warn customers of update slowdowns; Huawei loses ties with two major standards organizations; Facebook refuses to remove fake Pelosi video Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: May 27th, 2019 Apple has agreed to warn its users when an update will slow down their phones. Huawei is dealt another blow as two major standards organizations cut ties with them. Facebook refuses to remove the doctored video of Nancy Pelosi giving a speech. https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/8xzmmg/apple-agrees-to-tell-users-if-theyre-going-to-throttle-performance First up on the docket, we have a story from Reddit. Surely many of you have noticed your iPhones after updating it. And some time ago, Apple did admit to doing this purposefully. And while some could at least see their reasoning behind it, the fact that they did not alert customers that certain updates would have this effect, is what really caused some trouble for the company. But now, according to a story by Vice, they will be alerting users if such a slowdown is to be expected. https://www.cnet.com/news/huawei-gets-double-bad-news-from-sd-association-and-wi-fi-alliance/ Next up we have a story from Google Trends. It has not been a great past couple of months for Huawei, as I am sure you are all aware of. And it seems like the bad news is not stopping. Two major standards organizations, the WiFi Alliance and the SD Organization, have announced they have severed ties with the tech company. With that being said, they can still use this technology, they will just no longer have any say in the development and advancements of them. On a slightly happier note for Huawei, a story did emerge that they are in talks with Aptoide to use them as a replacement for the Google Play Store, after Google withdrew its software from Huawei phones. https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2019/may/24/facebook-leaves-fake-nancy-pelosi-video-on-site And back over to Reddit we go for our next story. Ever since the most recent US Presidential election, Facebook has vowed to stop the spread of fake news and misinformation. Over and over again, they have voiced their intentions to curb these practises. And yet, as a doctored video of Nancy Pelosi supposedly drunkenly slurring her way through a speech that was released by the office of Donald Trump is making its way around the internet, Facebook is refusing to do much about it. They said they will downgrade how often it appears in newsfeeds, as well as attach a link for a third party fact checking website, but have refused to delete it altogether. And they only did that much after inquiries from the Washington Post. Careers hashtag trending, podcasts Google Pixel 3a XL review: a premium camera for the midrange Social media giants focus of three-day parliamentary hearing in Ottawa About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada