https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/huawei-announces-5g-basestation-chip-ahead-of-mwc-2019/415292
Huawei announces 5G basestation chip ahead of MWC 2019 | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Wireless & IoT Huawei announces 5G basestation chip ahead of MWC 2019 Tom Li @itworldca Published: February 24th, 2019 In a Beijing press conference on Sunday, Huawei Technologies Co. launched its TianGang chip designed for 5G base stations. The TianGang chip supports all network standards and all 5G bands including 3.2 and 3.5GHz, as well as C-bands used by commercial satellites. Huawei says that the TianGang chip is highly integrated, which means it supports the integration of active power amplifiers and passive antenna arrays into very small antennas, one of the key building blocks of 5G base stations. An interesting specification is that the chip also supports 200Mhz high spectral bandwidth. So far, subchannel bandwidth beyond 100Mhz has rarely been mentioned. The chip can control 64 channels at once. In its press release, Huawei says active antenna units built using TianGang can be 50 per cent smaller, 23 per cent lighter, and can be deployed in half the time it takes to install 4G base stations. This reduces both site acquisition costs as well as installation time. “Huawei’s full-series, all-scenario simplified 5G products enable ultimate 5G performance and experiences,” said Yang Chaobin, president of Huawei 5G network product line. “These products help significantly boost network deployment and O&M efficiency, and make 5G deployment easier than 4G.” Huawei claims that it has shipped over 25,000 base stations won over 30 contracts globally. At the time of writing, Huawei has yet to state if these chips will make their way into products outside of China. Tom Li’s travel and accommodations to cover Mobile World Congress 2019 are paid for by Huawei. Huawei did not have a chance to review or approve content before publication. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Wireless & IoT 5G, advanced networks, Huawei, MWC 2019 Samsung Galaxy S10e, Galaxy S10, and Galaxy S10+ first impressions Huawei reveals the foldable Huawei Mate X smartphone at MWC 2019 About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Huawei Watch GT 2 ups the ante in functionality Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone Huawei Mate 30 Pro set to debut in Canada without Google apps Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada