https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-ransomware-cripples-hospitals-new-amazon-tablets-sonos-speaker-subscription/422575
Hashtag Trending – Ransomware cripples hospitals; new Amazon tablets; Sonos Speaker subscription? | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Ransomware cripples hospitals; new Amazon tablets; Sonos Speaker subscription? Tom Li @itworldca Published: October 8th, 2019 Three Alabama hospitals fold to ransomware demands, Amazon releases new budget tablets, Sonos launches speaker subscription. That’s all the tech news that’s trending today. It’s Tuesday, Oct. 8th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. First, from my Feedly feed, three Alabama hospitals have paid their attackers to unlock their databases. According to Ars Technica, the attackers managed to install ransomware on the hospital’s servers, which prevented access unless provided a decrypt key. The attack crippled the hospital’s functions, forcing them to turn away most of its non-critical patients. Officials didn’t release the payout sum, but has confirmed that it has received the decryption key and is working to restore operations. Trending on Google, Amazon has announced a new budget-friendly tablet. For $149.99, the Fire HD 10 tablet gets you a 10-inch 1080p display, stereo speakers, and a faster processor. By lowering the cost of entry, Amazon hopes to lure buyers into subscribing to Amazon services like Prime Video and Amazon Music. According to CNBC, the budget tablet will also display ads on the lock screen. You subscribed to Spotify, Netflix, and even groceries, but have you considered subscribing to speakers? Sonos is exploring this uncharted territory by offering what may be the first speaker subscription. The Sonos One, Beam, and Playbar speakers are available at €14, €25, and €50 euros respectively. These prices sound a lot better than paying up to €2,206 outright, and can be canceled at any time. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts AWS is making moves in Canada, but so are its critics as protests disrupt summit 5 tech job fairs to check out before the year is over About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada