https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/verizon-report-offers-receipe-for-honing-incident-response-plans/422203
Verizon report offers recipe for honing incident response plans | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Verizon report offers recipe for honing incident response plans Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: September 26th, 2019 If, as experts say, a data breach at every organization is inevitable, arguably the CISO’s first line of defence is an incident response plan. Incident response is what organizations do to prevent a breach of security controls from becoming a data breach. The problem, according to a report from Verizon released earlier this month, is that if a survey is representative, even those who have created IR plans haven’t got it right. While most (79 per cent) of the 125 assessed organizations the company questioned between 2016 and 2018 had an IR plan in place, fewer than half (48 per cent) had what Verizon considers a logically constructed, efficient plan. Among the flaws: More than one third (43 per cent) didn’t fully designate internal IR stakeholders; and 71 per cent didn’t describe end-user security awareness training. Only 40 per cent explicitly specified periodical reviewing, testing, and updating plans, 22 per cent cited no internal security policies or procedures and 38 per cent cited no legal or regulatory requirements (41 per cent partially did so) for cybersecurity, incident response, or data breach notification. Verizon says its Incident Preparedness and Response Report (registration required) will help IR stakeholders create, maintain or improve their cyber incident mitigation and response efforts. A reminder: Incident response stakeholders aren’t only in IT. They also include human resources, legal affairs, communications/public relations, physical security as well as others touched by an incident. Six components The report says incident response has six components: planning and preparation, detection and validation, containment and eradication, data collection and analysis, remediation and recovery, and post-incident assessment and adjustment. There’s a section of the report for each component. There are also five data breach scenarios, including how the organization responded and lessons learned. Briefly, the idea is the existing or new IR team should discuss the scenarios and draft (or correct the existing) the response playbooks in the organization’s IR plan to suit possible incidents your organization is likely to face. For those who don’t know, an IR plan describes roles, responsibilities and authorities for internal IR stakeholders. It identifies incident detection, types of attacks, and severity levels to guide internal IR stakeholders and tactical responders. For cybersecurity incidents, the report recommends identifying six to eight incident types (for example, unauthorized access, DoS, malicious code, improper usage, scans/probes/attempted access ). “By defining incident types, stakeholders can prepare for incidents, focus efforts and quickly engage resources when they occur,” says the report. These incident types can also determine topics for specific playbooks that support the overall IR Plan. Finally, don’t forget to test the IR plan. For more resources, see our previous stories “How to get the most out of your incident response plan test,” “Incident response plan must be tested,” and “What should be in an IR team Go Bag.” Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Incident Response, postmedia, security strategies Hashtag Trending - Google wins privacy case, SAY WHAT AGAIN, Trump talks CrowdStrike Privacy officers relieved Canadian watchdog isn't changing the rules About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada