https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/software-developers-are-in-high-demand-according-to-itwcs-salary-calculator-data/425428
Software developers are in high demand, according to ITWC's Salary Calculator data | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Illustration by z_wei via Getty Images. Careers Software developers are in high demand, according to ITWC’s Salary Calculator data Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: December 20th, 2019 Another year comes to an end, which means another year’s worth of data to analyze. We pulled out data from the 2019 IT Salary Calculator to find out which jobs were the most sought after. Click here to read more about what to expect in 2020 across the IT industry. Out of those who searched the salary calculator and compared their paycheck by job title and location in Canada in 2019, a quarter of them – – the biggest slice of the pie – were applying for software development roles, aligning with the overall software market growth. Baseline data for this comparison is from the Randstad technology salary guide. Data continues to build from both the IT World Canada Salary survey and users engaging with the salary calculator. Infographic produces by ITWC. Salary is the number one priority for the youngest worker generation The Workforce Institute at Kronos recently released new research looking at effective ways for employers to attract, motivate, develop and retain Gen Z employees. They surveyed 3,400 Gen Zers across Canada, India, China, Australia, Germany, the U.S. and the U.K. among others. The study uncovered that money still talks and that pay, and flexibility, as well as schedule stability, should be prioritized while recruiting the youngest working generation. More than 54 per cent say salary is the top consideration when applying for their first full-time job. Pay grows more and more important the older the Gen Zer, with 57 per cent individuals aged between 22 and 25 years agreeing that nothing can outweigh salary, compared to 49 per cent of those aged 21 years and below, the study reveals. Geolocation and quality matter to applicants Cynet also carried out a similar survey focusing only on cybersecurity professionals. As part of its 2019 survey, Cynet examined the pay rates measured against employee education, skills, achievements etc. The survey participants included 1,324 workers from diverse industries worldwide. The data received includes detailed salary profiles for five popular security positions: threat intelligence specialist, security analyst, security/cloud security architect, security manager/director, and penetration tester. Key survey findings include: geolocations matter significantly; women are hard to find in security positions; finance and banking provide the highest salaries in the industry; quality beats experience in the payment curve; pivoting pays as individuals that pivoted from an IT occupation to a cybersecurity position earned more than their peers that started out in cybersecurity “Whether under the title of CISO, director of security, or even chief information officer, one cannot protect their organization single-handedly. At the end of the day, a cybersecurity professional is part of a team that makes recruiting and retaining talent an imperative,” said Eyal Gruner, founder & chief executive officer of Cynet. Careers 2020 vision, IT jobs, salary Year in review: Cyber incidents in 2019, predictions for 2020 Cyber Security Today - Star Wars scams, unsafe child trackers, Honda car owner data exposed and last-minute security gifts About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Automation predictions for 2020 Cybersecurity in Canada 2019: It was an ‘awesome’ year for attackers Hashtag Trending – 3 social media predictions for 2020 5 smart city trends for 2020 Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada