https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cisco-selects-singularitynet-to-host-decentralized-agi-project/422134
Cisco selects SingularityNET to host decentralized AGI project | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Cisco selects SingularityNET to host decentralized AGI project Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: September 23rd, 2019 Cisco Systems Inc. announced this morning that SingularityNET’s blockchain-based platform will host its decentralized Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) project. AGI differs from standard AI in that it focuses on more intellectual tasks instead of automating menial tasks. So rather than just teaching a computer to identify certain words on a page, for example, an AGI system could string together sentences and write a novel. Dr. Ben Goertzel, the chief executive officer of SingularityNET, said in a press release that Cisco and SingularityNET see the potential in building AGI together. “The scale of the AGI deployments needed by a partner like Cisco is going to be tremendous, and we are working hard to make sure our AGI tools and our blockchain-based platform is up to the task,” he said. “This benefit may initially take the form of a generation of ‘Narrow AGI’ systems that infuse general intelligence into products in specific vertical markets like, say, advertising, medical research, computer networking or financial analytic.” Goertzel further explained that Cisco’s place in the world’s technology landscape is what they needed to kickstart that goal. “To really build a global decentralized thinking machine we are going to need to put a lot of complicated ingredients together, and the collaboration between Cisco and SingularityNET has the potential to accelerate things tremendously,” Goertzel said. SingularityNET founders Cassio Pennachin and Goertzel coined the term Artificial General Intelligence in 2005. Correction: A previous version of this article noted that Cisco completed the acquisition of Singularity Networks back in July. While this did happen, it does not have anything to do with the partnership with SingularityNET, which is a separate company. IT World Canada apologizes for the error. Artificial Intelligence Cisco, postmedia, SingularityNET Cyber Security Today - Trust still needed in security, cheap phones may mean cheap privacy, dump these Android apps Kik lays off staff, shuts down messenger app amid crypto legal battle About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada