https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/safely-enabling-remote-employee-productivity/403034
Safely enabling remote employee productivity | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Privacy & Security Wireless & IoT Safely enabling remote employee productivity Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: March 21st, 2018 Technology is about progress, and in that progress, opportunity. Organizations that are willing and able to embrace and exploit new technologies, particularly their disruptive qualities, can put themselves in a most favourable position going forward. Such is certainly the case when it comes to corporate mobility. Corporate mobility can hardly be called new technology as remote employee network access and other telecommuting solutions have been in vigour for a relatively long time. What is new, however, is how rapidly corporate mobility platforms are changing, and the fact that corporate mobility is now being driven by employees as opposed to IT groups and leadership. Register for Webinar: Secure Remote Access Without Breaking Your Budget Bring-your-own-device (BYOD) and the ability to work from anywhere at any time is not some passing fancy. In fact, it has been taken up as a working world fact (as opposed to privilege) by basically the entire “Millennial” cohort, which is on pace to make up three-quarters of the global workforce by 2025. Approaching the third decade of the new millennium, people have come to expect to be able to work from their home offices as well as from hotels, client sites, and even in transit or sitting in a coffee shop sipping chai tea. Working out-of-office has in a short time gone from being a novelty to a shrugging “so what?” kind of thing. The increasing diffusion and decentralization of computing infrastructures puts a heavy security burden on IT’s shoulders. Leaving aside the generational imperative — that as boomers give way to later cohorts, remote work will become even more everyday — companies are embracing (or at least having to embrace) mobility to stay competitive and progress to a new, more efficient workload model. However, in this “do more with less” environment, organizations must never lose sight of the critical factor: security. The enablement of remote workers can lead an organization that is not aware of the security implications into dangerous waters indeed. How, then, does a company offer the next generation of professional — non-traditional, BYOD, big believers in the social web, Internet communities, nonstop communication and information exchange — secure remote access without handing the keys to the kingdom to every hacker from Minneapolis to Moscow? On April 19, join ITWC CIO and Chief Digital Officer Jim Love and special guest Chris Hazelton, Director, Marketing for Enterprise Software at BlackBerry, as they discuss the challenges facing IT groups today as they seek to provision and support non-traditional employees, many or most of whom will access the company network using their own devices. Among the topics to be covered in this session: BYOD, from trend to new normal Modern approaches to managing thousands of PCs Replacing virtual desktop infrastructures Providing secure remote access Enabling the next gen of computers with BlackBerry Access for Windows 10 Register today for “Secure Remote Access Without Breaking Your Budget.” Careers, Privacy & Security, Wireless & IoT BlackBerry, BYOD, millennials, remote, work from home Canada's Privacy Commissioner escalates, launches formal investigation into Facebook Tech a minor component of Toronto's new 'smart neighbourhood,' Sidewalk Labs exec says About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content BlackBerry releases updates to SecuSUITE for Government and AtHoc Crisis Communication BlackBerry report says data losses increasing due to cloud misconfiguration Blackberry launches Digital Workplace TCL Communication to discontinue sales of BlackBerry devices Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada