https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/new-global-drone-standards-will-help-address-quality-control-for-a-growing-market-says-ceo/425340
New global drone standards will help address quality control for a growing market, says CEO of InDro Robotics | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech New global drone standards will help address quality control for a growing market, says CEO of InDro Robotics Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: December 20th, 2019 The International Organization of Standards (ISO) released its approved drone standards earlier this month, providing the industry in Canada with some important guidance around production quality and security. Click here to read more about what to expect in 2020 across the IT industry. “As an industry, standards are a very important part of the sector as it matures. Being able to have a more international set of standards will certainly assist in growth,” said Philip Reece, the chief executive officer of the British Columbia-based firm InDro Robotics. “Many of the smaller companies – and that is the majority of the market – look to the regulators and industry groups… to disseminate and educate on the regulations as they change and standards as they come out.” Related: Renfrew County uses drones to deliver defib units 7 minutes faster than ambulances Developed over a 12-month period of research and consultations with drone professionals, academics, businesses, and the general public, the standards currently cover issues including safety, security, production quality, and operating etiquette. In the future, the ISO says it plans to release standards on product systems and vocabulary, and Robert Garbett, who convened the ISO working group responsible for these standards, said that these standards will provide the industry with an increased level of legitimacy. That increased legitimacy also leads to investment dollars, said Garbett. “The standards will deliver a new confidence among investors in the safety, security, and compliance of commercial drone operations, which together with the product manufacturer and maintenance standards, is in turn expected to facilitate a massive expansion in the availability and use of drone technology in the years to come,” he noted in a press release. Phillip Reece says Canada’s unique characteristics require specific standards. Credit: InDro Robotics It wouldn’t hurt for Canada to adopt its own set of Canadian standards that align with its unique set of circumstances, like extreme weather and remote locations, he added. “Investment certainly follows stability and standards are a building block of stability,” said Reece. “The adoption of these standards in my industry will, I believe, be dependent on how relevant they are to Canada. We have a particular set of needs here in use of airspace (we have lots of remote areas class G), in inspection types – large static infrastructure (forestry, pipelines, roads, power lines) and equipment needs to be adaptable to long-range and adverse weather – and operations and flying in Canada has its own set of challenges. Standards that are too broad won’t address these particular Canadian challenges and benefits.” The ISO standards are not the complete solution, but their crucial for an industry that has already grown so quickly said Reece. That rapid growth sometimes leads to quality reduction. It’s happening in the vaping industry, as sub-par products flooded the market and put users at risk of serious health issues, he pointed out. “Quality and safety of equipment is always a concern in a rapidly developing technology,” he explained. “And to be useful and have longevity, standards must embrace these changes. What may appear impractical or even impossible today, could be commonplace within a year or two. It will be innovation that keeps Canada at the forefront of the industry, and to be useful standards will have to recognize that balance between innovation and established quality.” Canadian standards are on the horizon though, he said, pointing to the Canadian Standards Agency which recently commissioned to look into the specific needs of Canada and where the existing standards fail to meet those unique needs. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech 2020 vision, Drones, InDro Robotics, ISO 3 key Canadian telecom trends for 2020 Malware is going to get weirder in 2020, so it's time for enterprises to get weird too, says Trend Micro exec About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Automation predictions for 2020 Cybersecurity in Canada 2019: It was an ‘awesome’ year for attackers Hashtag Trending – 3 social media predictions for 2020 5 smart city trends for 2020 Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada