https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/esentire-strengthens-its-security-services-with-crowdstrike/425351
eSentire strengthens its security services with CrowdStrike | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Managed Services & Outsourcing Privacy & Security eSentire announces partnership with CrowdStrike Tom Li @itworldca Published: December 19th, 2019 Managed detection and response firm eSentire has announced a partnership with Crowdstrike to complement one another’s security solutions. The partnership, announced on Dec. 19, will see eSentire integrate CrowdStrike’s Falcon Insight endpoint detection and response platform, Falcon Prevent anti-virus, and Falcon OverWatch human threat detection engine into its managed threat detection and response (MDR) suite. Based in Waterloo, Ont., eSentire offers MDR for organizations that don’t have the resources and time to manage their own security. Cost-savings aside, MDRs provide the organization with on-demand access to security experts. They usually employ multiple layers of detection systems including signature-based and behaviour-based detection tools. And while it uses AI and automation tools, it also employs human analysis to better filter false negatives and positives. MDRs are often conflated with managed security service providers (MSSP). On a surface level, they share the common goal of threat detection and prevention, but managed security services also handle aspects like security compliance. Conversely, MDRs often boast significantly more robust detection techniques that extend beyond the capabilities of traditional MSSPs. With that said, the distinction between the two services is becoming increasingly blurred as both are beginning to offer overlapping services. Crowdstrike is a managed service provider for security solutions. It offers a suite of endpoint threat detection tools under its Falcon brand. Its key services include Falcon OverWatch threat hunting, Falcon Prevent antivirus, and Falcon Insight threat detection and response. According to the company’s website, Falcon OverWatch alone prevents 15,000 breaches a year. eSentire offers asset protection for endpoint activities, network functions, and data sources. Its deployment capability includes on-prem, cloud, and hybrid environments. In January 2019, eSentire integrated Carbon Black’s CB Defense endpoint threat prevention solution into its services. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos Your ERP System Is Leaking How to Better Use a Time and Labour Data Collection System to Plug Holes Caused by Fraud and Waste. Read More Managed Services & Outsourcing, Privacy & Security carbon black, CrowdStrike, Cyber Security, eSentire, MDR, MSSP Manitoba insurance agency admits it was hit by ransomware Slow and steady offers a brighter tomorrow for SMBs About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Why pizza party security training doesn’t cut it anymore Movement starts to have Canada declare Sept. 1 as International Women in Cyber Day Do security diligence but prepare for the worst, new report advises Small businesses need to take bigger security measures Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada