https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-uber-launches-job-app-the-office-is-dying-netflix-uses-15-of-internet/422501
Hashtag Trending – Uber launches job app; the office is dying; Netflix uses 15% of internet | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Uber launches job app; the office is dying; Netflix uses 15% of internet Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: October 4th, 2019 Uber launches new job app; the physical office is dying; Netflix uses 15% of world’s internet Uber has revolutionized the transportation industry, and now they are looking to do the same for the job market, and it is trending on LinkedIn. Launching today in Chicago, Uber Works is geared towards the gig economy and they hope it will change how freelancers and temporary workers find their work. Not only can users find jobs by location, hours, and pay, but they will also be able to use the app to clock in and out of shifts. This comes amid some states, including California, are working to pass legislation that would force companies to classify temporary workers as employees so it should be interesting to watch how that affects this newest app from Uber. As you listen to this podcast, you may be at the office, but in this day and age, it is just as possible you are listening from the comfort of your home office, as a new report from The Economist that is trending on LinkedIn indicates that the need for physical offices is diminishing and it could lead to the extinction of the office as we know it. The report lists the demands of workers for more flexible work lives, none of this would be possible without the technology that has enabled companies to operate in such a remote and flexible fashion. And rounding out our lineup for the day we have a story trending on Reddit and it puts forward some stats that are quite staggering. According to a report from a bandwidth management company outlines that Netflix currently takes up a whopping 15% of the world’s bandwidth. Following up Netflix, the major players were embedded videos at just over 13%, Youtube at almost 11.5%, and general web browsing at 7.8%. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Avaya announces strategic partnership with RingCentral Cyber Security Today - Stalkerware and ransomware increasing, password advice and updates to watch for About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada