https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/feddev-ontario-announces-3m-investment-in-ottawa-networking-firm/420514
FedDev Ontario announces $3M investment in Ottawa networking firm | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Public Sector FedDev Ontario announces $3M investment in Ottawa networking firm Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: July 31st, 2019 The commercialization of Canadian innovation has historically been below expectations, which could be why the Canadian government saw fit to invest over $2.9 million through FedDev Ontario into Rockport Networks Inc., an Ottawa-based networking solution firm. Announced earlier this week by Karen McCrimmon, the parliamentary secretary to the minister of public safety and emergency preparedness and the member of parliament for Kanata-Carleton, the announcement stated that this investment, which will also leverage $5.4 million in private sector funding, will aid in the acceleration of commercialization of Rockport’s high-performance networking solution. “FedDev Ontario’s investment in Rockport Networks Inc. will support the growth of a highly resourceful local company in an industry that demands innovative solutions for connectivity and networking,” said McCrimmon. “This announcement is great news for Ottawa, as it supports the scale-up of a local business, strengthening the ICT cluster and creating quality jobs in the region.” Rockport, which was founded in 2012, said that this investment will not only allow them to create 20 new STEM jobs in the Ottawa area but will also allow Rockport to contract local manufacturers, engineers and software developers. To accelerate the commercialization of its product, Rockport will adapt its proprietary technology specifically for the server market, undergo product refinement, and will execute market development and product launch activities. “Thanks to this partnership with FedDev Ontario, Rockport is positioned to accelerate market entry of our Canadian networking innovation, deliver the economic, environmental and security benefits, and continue to build a highly-skilled labour force,” said Doug Carwardine, the co-founder, president, and chief executive officer of Rockport. Public Sector FedDev Ontario, Rockport Networks Inc. Canadian AI firm closes 7th acquisition in the last 2 years Hashtag Trending - Apple pivots, Netflix is going Hollywood, Bernie unveils net neutrality plan About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content FedDev Ontario announces $4M investment in digital identity firm BioConnect FedDev Ontario invests into Everest Clinical Research through Women Entrepreneurship Strategy FedDev Ontario invests nearly $1.5M for Oakville manufacturing company to scaleup FedDev Ontario announces $500,000 investment in Weever Apps Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada