https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-apple-doesnt-want-to-pay-back-taxes-sanders-calls-for-ban-on-facial-recognition-cattle-farming-could-go-extinct/421913
Hashtag Trending – Apple doesn't want to pay back taxes; Sanders calls for ban on facial recognition; Cattle farming could go extinct | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Apple doesn’t want to pay back taxes; Sanders calls for ban on facial recognition; Cattle farming could go extinct Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: September 18th, 2019 Apple refusing to pay back taxes owed to EU; Bernie Sanders call for ban on police use of facial recognition; a new report says cattle farming could go extinct First up, we have another story regarding Apple and its questionable international dealings. The European Union recently ordered Apple to pay over 14 billion dollars in back taxes that it says is owed to Ireland. This all stems from the European headquarters that Apple established in Ireland because of the tax situation at the time; which the EU is now trying to tie to any profits that were made in Europe. Apple has said that this defies all logic and reality and has so far refused to pay. Next up, we have a story from the US presidential election campaigns that are currently underway. While a few US cities have already banned the use of facial recognition by its law enforcement departments, now Democratic candidate Bernie Sanders is calling for a national ban on police us of the technology. While his comments were made in August, they have found themselves back in the news as the topic of facial recognition software, as well as algorithmic prediction methods for judging re-offending odds, which Sanders also opposes, are hot topics again. And lastly, we have a story that may frighten cattle farmers across the continent. A new study shows that by 2030, not only could the cattle population in the US be reduced by 50 percent, but the cattle farming industry as a whole could be bankrupt. The reason for these findings is the ever-growing presence and demand for manufactured proteins to replace traditional protein sources. In fact, the study also theorizes that by 2035, demand for cattle-related products could drop by 80 to 90 percent. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts HP Elite Dragonfly hands-on review: style and productivity in one package Cyber Security Today - Medical information found open on Internet, Lumin hacked, unsafe routers and more About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada