https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-amazon-confirms-its-first-covid-19-case-a-stern-warning-from-twitter-trudeau-unveils-82b-aid-package/428702
Hashtag Trending - Amazon confirms its first COVID-19 case; A stern warning from Twitter; Trudeau unveils $82B aid package | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Amazon confirms its first COVID-19 case; A stern warning from Twitter; Trudeau unveils $82B aid package Staff @itworldca Published: March 20th, 2020 Amazon confirms its first known coronavirus case in an American warehouse, Twitter is not messing around when it comes to stopping the spread of misinformation, and Justin Trudeau unveils an $82B aid package for Canadians and small businesses. Exclusive: Amazon Confirms First Known Coronavirus Case in an American Warehouse — Workers at the Queens, New York, facility say employees were expected to come in for their night shift after the case was identified. Amazon denies this. from technology The Atlantic this week reported that an Amazon warehouse in Queens, New York confirmed its first case of the coronavirus. But the publication also reports that workers were expected to come in for their night shift after the case was identified. Amazon has since denied this claim, but that hasn’t stopped the story from blowing up on Reddit. It’s worth pointing out that two office workers at Amazon’s Seattle headquarters have already been diagnosed with COVID-19, and this is the first confirmed case of the disease among the company’s hourly warehouse employees in the U.S. Under Twitter’s aggressive new COVID-19 safety rules, you can’t encourage people to go to bars or discourage them from social distancing in areas affected by the coronavirus https://t.co/BmQS9AcfY6 — Taylor Hatmaker (@tayhatmaker) March 19, 2020 Twitter this week updated its safety policy to prohibit tweets that “could place people at a higher risk of transmitting COVID-19.” The new policy reportedly bans tweets that deny expert guidance on the virus. This means tweets that encourage “fake or ineffective treatments, preventions and diagnostic techniques” as well as tweets that mislead users by pretending to be from health authorities or experts. TechCrunch reports that Twitter will take things like account history when making its final decision on flagged tweets. And lastly, it’s not the meatiest tech story of the day, but Justin Trudeau’s 82B stimulus package for Canadians and businesses has enormous implications for all industries across the country. There’s a lot to unpack here. Among other items, Trudeau this week announced the following: $27 billion in direct support and $55 billion to help businesses A new Emergency Benefit of $900 bi-weekly for up to 15 days for workers that do not qualify for paid sick leave or employment insurance A six-month, no interest reprieve on student loan payments Extending the tax filing deadline to June 1 $305 million for a new Indigenous Community Support Fund to address immediate needs in First Nations, Inuit and Métis Nation communities GST credit for low-income earners and special support for the homeless and shelters that work with the victims of domestic violence That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Expect phishing attacks on remote workers to increase during COVID-19 pandemic An open letter to our audience - COVID–19: A balanced approach to carrying on Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada