https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-more-ces-facebook-bans-deepfake-vids-flying-car-unveiled/425787
Hashtag Trending - More CES, Facebook bans deepfake vids, flying car unveiled | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – More CES, Facebook bans deepfake vids, flying car unveiled Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: January 8th, 2020 CES hasn’t stopped, so how can we not talk about it, Facebook says it’s going to ban deepfake videos, and Uber and Hyundai unveil their concept electric flying car for the future of air taxi service. The Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas continues, and so does the news coming out of the event. Mercedes-Benz unveiled a concept car with “bionic flaps” inspired by the movie “Avatar”, which is wonderfully silly, IBM once again dragged its quantum computer out of the lab to show off to the world, and dozens of new augmented reality apps are flexing their muscles. AMD unveiled its new 64-core Threadripper processor, while Dell and Lenovo, alongside a number of other vendors, pulled the curtains back on new devices. Catch up on all the latest right here. Facebook says it will ban “deepfake” videos that have been manipulated with artificial intelligence from its platform, as well as Instagram’s. But a lot of people on LinkedIn are pointing out how many “shallow fake” videos, which can often be pretty convincing at a glance, are made using conventional editing tools. Those videos, by the way, are still allowed on Facebook. The news comes in the run-up to the U.S. elections. It wasn’t that long ago when a recently doctored video of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi made its rounds on the internet. That too, was also made with traditional editing software. And lastly, some more CES, this time about flying cars. Uber and Hyundai have outlined their partnership at the tech conference earlier this week, with Uber saying Hyundai’s mass production history and resources mean they can build air taxis at the scale the ridesharing company requires. While the news made for some great photo ops, people on Twitter are pointing out how the costly method of travel widens the gap between the rich and the poor, and that additional investments in public transit would be preferred. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts CES 2020: Dell introduces the XPS 13 Developer Edition laptop Cyber Security Today - Facebook improves privacy, bans some altered videos; Google deletes three apps and restores one About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada