https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canada-is-a-prime-target-for-cybersecurity-attacks-in-2019/414201
Canada is a prime target for cybersecurity attacks in 2019 | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Canada is a prime target for cybersecurity attacks in 2019 Cindy Baker @itworldca Published: January 16th, 2019 Get ready Canada. The cybercriminals have you in their sights for 2019. Despite our smaller market size, Canada had the third most cyber incidents in the world last year, according to a recent study. This year’s federal election is likely to attract more “bad actors” who will try to use misinformation to influence public opinion, warns the Canadian Centre for Cyber Security in its latest threat assessment. Cybercrime against Canadian citizens and businesses, however, will be the biggest threat this year, the report says. “It is certain that Canadians will be affected by malicious online activity in the coming year,” said Scott Jones, head of the Cyber Security Centre. Crash Course in Cybersecurity: Register today for Feb. 6 webinar Indeed, the Canadian Internet Registration Authority (CIRA) reports that 88 per cent of respondents to its security survey are worried about the prospect of future cyber attacks. Reasons for Cyber insomnia in 2019 What is causing executives to lose sleep this year? “Cybercrime is evolving as criminals take advantage of growing online markets for illicit goods and services in order to maximize their profits,” says the Centre’s National Cyber Threat Assessment report. As well, it notes that criminals have increased the scale and sophistication of their activities to exploit technical vulnerabilities and human error. By using specific social engineer techniques against businesses, cyber attacks have escalated from phishing to “whaling,” says the report. That’s when an executive with access to company resources gets a message that appears to be from a relevant employee, asking them to direct funds to an account controlled by criminals. This can lead to major financial losses and damage to reputations, the report notes. It’s expected that threat actors will increase their efforts to exploit supply chain vulnerabilities in 2019. “Given the interdependent nature of many modern businesses, supply chain security is only as strong as its weakest link.” The idea is to identify vulnerable parties to gain access to the primary target through shared networks. As well, the report anticipates that, with more and more devices connected to the Internet, cybercriminals will have new opportunities to use malware to generate or “mine” cryptocurrency. The costs will be high The survey by CIRA found that 66 per cent of businesses with 250 to 499 employees experienced a cyber attack in the last 12 months. At the same time, it estimates that 70 per cent of data breaches happen against companies with fewer than 100 employees. Globally, the Ponemon Institute reports that the average cost of a breach last year was US$3.86 million, up by 6.4 percent from the prior year. It notes that Canada has among the highest costs from a breach, including items such as notifying victims and engaging forensic experts. These trends raise concerns given CIRA’s findings about the preparedness of Canadian businesses. Its survey showed that 37 per cent of respondents didn’t have anti-malware protection and 71 per cent didn’t have a formal patching policy. The threats are coming says the report by the Canadian Centre for Cyber Security, “but by knowing the threats, we hope that action can be taken to prevent, detect and respond.” To get a free crash course on the cybersecurity trends for 2019 and how you can protect against them, register now for this February 6th webinar, sponsored by Trend Micro. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cryptocurrency, cyber attacks, threat assessment, Trend Micro Planning for a successful AI journey Cyber Security Today: Jan. 16, 2019 -- Why security testing is vital, and keep away from construction sites About Cindy Baker Cindy Baker has over 20 years of experience in IT-related fields in the public and private sectors, as a lawyer and strategic advisor. She is a former broadcast journalist, currently working as a consultant, freelance writer and editor. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content The aftermath of a data breach and how to secure your business Shopify joins Facebook’s Libra Association From ransomware infections to cryptomining scams, fake factory honeypot provides lessons for CISOs Malware is going to get weirder in 2020, so it’s time for enterprises to get weird too, says Trend Micro exec Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada