https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/mitacs-placing-400-interns-with-encqor-5g-network-projects/427249
Mitacs placing 400 interns with ENCQOR 5G network projects | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by MARHARYTA MARKO | Getty Images Education Emerging Tech Mobility Public Sector Mitacs placing 400 interns with ENCQOR 5G network projects Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: February 12th, 2020 Nonprofit national research organization Mitacs has announced that it is working with the ENCQOR 5G network to place 400 student interns from Ontario and Quebec into various 5G-related projects within their network. ENCQOR 5G is a partnership with a focus on driving innovation in the 5G space between Ontario, Quebec, and Canada and five industry leaders: Ericsson, Ciena, Thales, IBM Canada and CGI. Benoit Pelletier, the head of ENCQOR 5G, spoke in a press release about the need for talent in the space. “In the extremely competitive 5G landscape, it’s crucial that we tap into the best researchers and develop young talent in strategic areas,” said Pelletier. “Mitacs puts us in touch with highly qualified individuals who match the research profile we’re looking for.” Eric Bosco, the chief business development officer for Mitacs, said the organization’s role in the partnership is mostly focused on research. “Mitacs is an integral part of research and development teams — we understand where our partners’ pain points are and help them identify which part of their research roadmap is conducive to partnering with academia,” explained Bosco. He further added that once Mitacs secures a match between an intern and a project, they continue to manage the placement to ensure everything is running well between the company and the researcher. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Education, Emerging Tech, Mobility, Public Sector 5G, CGI, ciena, Ericsson, IBM Canada, Mitacs, Thales Failure to better manage keys and certificates putting firms at risk, says new report MWC 2020 in Barcelona officially cancelled by event organizers About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content ISED details 3,500MHz 5G spectrum auction criterias Rajeev Suri to step down as president and CEO of Nokia Ericsson announces partnership with Carleton University to research 5G tech TekSavvy partners with Ericsson to upgrade broadband for over 30,000 households in southwestern Ontario Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada