https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/old-sayings-convey-current-truths-about-the-journey-to-cloud/411552
Old sayings convey current truths about the journey to cloud | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Digital Transformation Old sayings convey current truths about the journey to cloud Suzanne Robicheau @itworldca Published: November 7th, 2018 Important truths about the importance of planning have trickled through time in sayings like ‘look before you leap’ and ‘a stitch in time saves nine’. Is there any place for these old adages on the new road to cloud? The experts tell us there had better be. With so many exciting developments, such as software-defined scale, software-defined networks, automation, containerization and Kubernetes, it has never been more important to have a roadmap that guides product and project investments,” says Christopher Taylor, TeraGo VP for Product Development. “The last thing you want is to spend money and start an implementation, only to discover a misalignment with your business objectives.” Recent webinar Taylor joined his colleague, Anil Kanwar, Solution Architect for TeraGo, and ITWC CIO and Chief Digital Officer Jim Love in a November 6, 2018 webinar entitled Future-Proof Your Cloud Map. The general consensus was that cloud, something Gartner describes as the new normal, is more of a journey than a destination, and like any complicated journey, it requires planning, organization and purpose. According to Taylor, capitalizing on this new normal begins with a comprehensive plan that aligns IT capabilities with organizational goals and objectives. “It’s important to have a macro view of the organization,” he said. In order to understand the needs of a business and arrive at a rationale for going, or not going with cloud, Kanwar works with TeraGo’s customers to analyze expenditures related to servers, storage, networks, data centres, and personnel. “There are definitely costs to this kind of analysis,” he said, “but there are far greater costs in not doing it.” View on demand: “Future-Proof Your Cloud Map” Taylor enumerated the stumbling blocks in arriving at a comprehensive cloud strategy, beginning with a misperception of multi-cloud. “Multi-cloud” “People will tell me that they are multi-cloud, but the truth of it is that they are multi-cloud because they are using a number of clouds and leveraging them on an ad hoc basis. One department may be leveraging Google for one thing and another may be using AWS for something else. There’s no real strategy with regard to a multi-cloud approach.” Defining cloud strategy Another difficulty is that many businesses use product demos to define their cloud adoption strategy – a situation exemplified in old sayings about putting the cart in front of the horse and letting the tail wag the dog. “The dealers come in and their products look awesome, but it’s problematic to let these products define your strategy,” said Taylor. “It’s really important to get out ahead of the RFP before you issue it and nail down your business and technical requirements.” No roadmap A third obstacle, from Kanwar’s perspective, is a failure by many organizations to adopt an enterprise architecture view at the infrastructure or application level. “Without a roadmap or plan, everyone is using a different infrastructure solution to meet business requirements,” he said. Taylor offered the following words from Abraham Lincoln as a way of crystallizing his thoughts on the optimum path to cloud: Give me six hours to chop down a tree and I will spend the first four sharpening the axe. “That’s one of the big takeaways here,” he said. “At TeraGo, we do cloud assessments to help our clients understand cloud, and understand some of the values of cloud. It’s worth spending the time up front to gather your priorities.” Webinar on demand View the webinar Future-Proof Your Cloud Map on demand for more information on developing a roadmap that takes your cloud program to the next level and sets you up for the future. Cloud, Digital Transformation cloud map, DX, roadmap, TeraGo Cyber Security Today: Nov. 7, 2018 -- Stop swiping credit cards, problems with self-encrypting hard drives, another Adobe Struts patch Asus ZenBook S UX391 Review: Hot and expensive, but a great Ultrabook About Suzanne Robicheau Suzanne Robicheau is a communications specialist based in Wolfville, Nova Scotia, where working remotely continues to fuel her passion for new mobile technologies -- especially on snowy days. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content A checklist for success in the cloud Sponsored By: OVHcloud Choosing the right cloud for your business Don’t waste a good crisis: 6 real-life lessons in digital transformation Full speed ahead a winning strategy for digital transformation Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada