https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/opentext-enfuse-2019-the-carbonite-acquisition-new-apps-and-updates/423902
OpenText Enfuse 2019: The Carbonite acquisition, new apps, and updates | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. OpenText's CEO Mark Barrenechea spoke of the importance of adding Carbonite to its endpoint security portfolio. Credit: Buckley Smith Artificial Intelligence Big Data & Analytics Cloud Mobility Privacy & Security Software OpenText Enfuse 2019: The Carbonite acquisition, new apps, and updates Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: November 12th, 2019 LAS VEGAS — The topic of endpoint security was front and centre on the first day of OpenText Enfuse 2019. OpenText’s chief executive officer, Mark Barrenechea, said in his keynote that endpoint security becomes all the more vital as cloud computing continues to accelerate. “We look at the momentum of moving into the cloud. You’re in a five to six-year window where everything will be centralized and operating in the cloud,” said Barrenechea. “As more gets centralized into the cloud, it just exposes how important that edge is.” The topic of endpoint security was especially relevant yesterday after the Waterloo-based company announced its intent to acquire Carbonite for just under $1.5 billion, continuing its aggressive acquisition strategy over the last couple of years, which includes Liaison Technologies and Hightail. Although the acquisition is not expected to officially finalize for about 90 days, Barrenechea expressed his excitement about what Carbonite will bring to OpenText’s endpoint security portfolio. Barrenechea said the endpoint is strategic and this acquisition signals OpenText’s “commitment of winning at the endpoint”. According to Barrenechea, OpenText already secures about 40 million endpoints, but once Carbonite is officially brought into the fold, that number will increase to about 100 million. Most importantly in what Carbonite brings to the table, according to OpenText’s chief product officer, Muhi Majzoub, is the endpoint antivirus and the data backup for endpoint devices which allows users to simply wipe their devices and move on rather than be held hostage by ransomware. Although what they bring from a solutions standpoint is important, Majzoub pointed out that he thinks this should be seen as a big move for OpenText into the SMB world; as Carbonite brings with it experience and customers in that space. OpenText Enfuse 2019 kicked off on Tuesday in Las Vegas with a bevy of announcements. Credit: Buckley Smith Updated security portfolio Beyond the Carbonite announcement, OpenText also used its bi-annual solutions and updates release to announce a bevy of updates to its security portfolio. Barrenechea continued to emphasize the importance of security in his keynote, saying that security needs to be “job #1”. “It has to be all the way from the boardroom, to the CEO, to the company leadership team, the dev-ops team, in engineering, in the human behavior,” he said. With this in mind, he noted that this same prioritization of security needs to be applied to software. The updates to OpenText’s security platform include: Threat Hunting Service is a new service which provides customers with a team of OpenText security experts using EnCase Endpoint Security and Magellan to aid in the quick identification, monitoring, and remediation of threats. EnCase TM Endpoint Security improves endpoint detection and response capabilities to assist security teams in finding and removing threat actors from networks in quicker turnaround times. EnCase TM Forensics delivers updates to indexing and search capabilities. The update also allows users to browse the Apple File System snapshot as well as access a collection of Microsoft OST artifacts. Tableau Forensic Imager will now provide users the ability to pause and resume any forensic imaging jobs, even after a power cycle. New solutions from OpenText While the first day of OpenText Enfuse 2019 saw a number of updates to existing solutions and portfolios, the company did announce two new applications. The first one was Core for Federated Compliance – available now for Documentum – which is a centralized application designed to provide oversight of the records policies across a multitude of content repositories. The second new release was Core Experience Insights. This SaaS application is designed to provide marketing departments with visibility over the customer experience journey. This includes website interactions, social media content, email engagement, and call centre performance. Old apps moving to the cloud In his keynote, Barrenechea pointed out in the last year, venture capital funds invested zero dollars to on-premise software, while cloud software received 100 per cent of software investment. And with that in mind, several of OpenText’s top existing solutions are getting the cloud-native treatment. This includes Content Services, Content Suite Platform, Documentum, Extended ECM Platform, and InfoArchive. This will bring with it automatic updates and the ability to run the apps both on and off the cloud. The company said in its release that it is looking at this as a big step towards the launch of OpenText Cloud Editions in 2020. It is likely that we will see much more of this in the future as Barrenechea explained that he believes everything (not just OpenText solutions) will be in the cloud in the next five to six years. EIM solutions updates It wouldn’t be an Enfuse event without some announcements about OpenText’s enterprise information management solutions. Updates to the portfolio include: Automated machine-translations of documents in global investigations and automated sentiment analysis were added to Axcelerate – OpenText’s platform for eDiscovery and investigations – in partnership with Veritone. eDocs – OpenText’s electronic document management solution – has been updated to include AI-powered search. Web Content Management Solution now includes content suggestion generation and translation. Updates to Extended ECM Platform will allow users to automate multiple simultaneous content-driven processes through asynchronous processing. Vendor Invoice Management will now be able to automate content-related processes, powered by machine learning and optical character recognition. New integrations between the Experience portfolio and Hightail, Google Translate, Brightcove’s video hosting platform, Salesforce, the Salesforce Marketing Cloud, and SAP. New integrations for Documentum for Life Sciences with Microsoft SharePoint Online and OpenText’s Contract Center is now integrated with SAP. New visualizations in Magellan Analytics Studio. New authoring tools in Exstream – OpenText’s customer communications management platform. A new mobile app for Documentum – OpenText’s ECM suite. Legal solutions OpenText’s legal industry solutions also received updates, including: New AI features like sentiment analysis and entity extraction powered by Magellan – OpenText’s AI and analytics platform – for Axcelerate, allowing for the automatic detection of people and places referenced in sets of documents while organizing communications by tone and emotional language. Axcelerate has added automated machine translations powered by Veritone’s aiWARE – an AI operating system – which will automatically translate over 29 languages to English. eDOCS MindServer – OpenText’s AI-enhanced search engine that powers OpenText Axcelerate – is being added to the legal portfolio to securely crawl and index information to draw out relevant information without the need to know precise keywords. Artificial Intelligence, Big Data & Analytics, Cloud, Mobility, Privacy & Security, Software analytics, cloud, cybersecurity, EIM, OpenText, postmedia Google publicizes Ascension partnership after healthcare data reveal Toronto startup wants to cut the time it takes for Canadian startups to scale in half About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada