https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/firms-not-taking-privileged-access-management-seriously-enough-says-vendor-report/415432
Firms not taking privileged access management seriously enough, says vendor report | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Firms not taking privileged access management seriously enough, says vendor report Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: February 27th, 2019 It’s not easy for attackers to steal data if they can’t access it. But if a survey from a security vendor is accurate, not enough organizations are taking seriously enough the management of employees with privileged access to digital assets. According to the online survey of 1,000 IT decision makers (500 in the U.S. and 500 in the U.K.) online in October 2018, 74 per cent of respondents whose organization had suffered a data breach said it involved access to a privileged account. Yet many aren’t taking what Centrify — which makes privilege access management (PAM) solutions — calls the simplest measures to reduce risk. For example: 52 per cent of respondents said their organization doesn’t have a password vault; 65 per cent are still sharing root or privileged access to systems and data at least somewhat often 63 per cent indicate their companies usually take more than one day to shut off privileged access for employees who leave the company 21 per cent still have not implemented multi-factor authentication (MFA) for privileged administrative access Related Articles Protection of systems from internal attacks is “rather poor,” says vendor Infosec pros spend big bucks every year attempting to better secure their networks and assets. But if a new vendor report... July 10th, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Tips for 10 security projects CISOs can use to reduce risk By Neil MacDonald, vice-president & distinguished analyst, Gartner Inc. With security a top priority in most organizations these days, it... July 9th, 2018 Gartner @Gartner_inc PAM solutions are a subset of identity and access management. As its name suggests, PAM means limiting access to digital assets to, if you will, a privileged few. In addition to Centrify there’s a huge number of PAM providers, including Thycotic, CyberArk, ManageEngine, Beyond Trust, Broadcom, IBM and Red Hat. According to Gartner, a PAM solution can not only discover privileged accounts on systems, devices and applications, it automatically randomize, manage and vault passwords and other credentials for administrative, service and application accounts; control access to privileged accounts, including shared and “firecall” (emergency access) accounts; and isolate, monitor, record and audit privileged access sessions, commands and actions. The report’s authors found other concerning responses, such as 63 per cent of all respondents indicated their companies usually take more than a day to turn off privileged access for an employee who leaves the company. In addition, 45 per cent said they aren’t security public and private cloud workloads with PAM solutions. Nor are a majority securing network devices with privileged access controls. Read the full report here. Registration required. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security privileged access management, security strategies Hashtag Trending - PepsiCo goes automatic; Anti-vax views on Amazon Prime Video; YouTube kids videos cause concern; Cyber Security Today: Feb. 27, 2019: Report on mobile malware, a LinkedIn con and is your airline spying on you? About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada