https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/gsma-applies-new-restrictions-as-more-companies-depart-mwc-due-to-coronavirus-outbreak/427120
GSMA applies new restrictions as more companies depart MWC due to coronavirus outbreak | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Mobility Privacy & Security GSMA applies new restrictions as more companies depart MWC due to coronavirus outbreak Tom Li @itworldca Published: February 10th, 2020 In lieu of more major telecom players departing MWC 2020, the GSMA has announced new restrictions for its attendees to assuage showgoers’ anxiety. Last week, Amazon, Sony, Ericsson, and Nvidia announced that they’ve retracted their attendance due to worries over the coronavirus outbreak. Earlier, LG pulled their booth from MWC, and ZTE cancelled its press conference. Samsung also said that it would curtail its personnel at the show. On Sunday, the GSMA released a statement to all attendees announcing additional safeguards against the outbreak, including travel restrictions against people from certain regions. The new measures and restrictions include: All travellers from the Hubei province will not be permitted access to the event. All travellers who have been in China will need to demonstrate proof they have been outside of China 14 days prior to the event (passport stamp, health certificate). Temperature screening will be implemented. Attendees will need to self-certify they have not been in contact with anyone infected. These are in addition to the preventative measures already in place. GSMA announced last week that it would increase medical staff presence, sanitization routines, and hygiene awareness campaigns throughout the show. Despite the chaos, GSMA maintains that the show would continue and that it’s expecting a turnout of 2,800 exhibitors. Catalonia Health Minister Alba Vergés explained that the region of Catalonia is not a public health risk zone. In 2003, Computex, an annual consumer trade show held in Taipei, Taiwan was nearly cancelled due to the SARS outbreak. It was ultimately postponed to September from June due to containment efforts. More information on the recent coronavirus outbreak can be found through the WHO. Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility, Privacy & Security Amazon, Ericsson, LG, MWC 2020, Nvidia, Samsung, ZTE New report warns businesses of coronavirus email scam Hybrid AWS Outposts ‘a great option’ for manufacturing, healthcare, says AWS director About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Coronavirus ‘decimated’ device manufacturing in February, says IDC Ericsson announces partnership with Carleton University to research 5G tech Samsung 16GB LPDDR5 DRAM enters mass production TekSavvy partners with Ericsson to upgrade broadband for over 30,000 households in southwestern Ontario Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada