https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/lenovo-announces-first-5g-enabled-laptop/425700
Lenovo announces first 5G-enabled laptop | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Infrastructure Lenovo announces first 5G-enabled laptop Tom Li @itworldca Published: January 6th, 2020 LAS VEGAS — Qualcomm and Lenovo announced the Lenovo Yoga 5G at its CES 2020 media conference on Jan. 6, combining Qualcomm Snapdragon 8cx SoC and a custom antenna array developed by Lenovo. Being a Yoga, Lenovo’s new laptop can convert into a tablet by folding the screen 360-degrees. Its 14-inch 400nit IPS touchscreen supports multi-touch and pen input. The Yoga 5G wasn’t the first laptop to use the Snapdragon 8cx, but it was the first laptop to enable the Qualcomm x55 5G modem that supports both sub 6GHz and mmWave 5G wireless frequencies. The Lenovo Yoga 5G also supports eSIM, which lets the user connect to 5G without purchasing a physical SIM. This is helpful for frequent travellers whos switch between different mobile carriers in different countries. The ARM-based 8cx chip has a 7W TDP, equivalent to that of intel’s ultra-low-power Y-series processors. Its low heat output allowed the Lenovo Yoga 5G to be passively cooled and omits fan noise. Lenovo also emphasized that its engineers optimized the chassis design to minimize heat while charging. In addition, Lenovo said that the Yoga 5G boasts a 24 hours battery life. Other features included a Windows Hello compatible fingerprint sensor, front-facing Dolby Atmos speakers, two USB-C ports and a headphone jack. The Lenovo Yoga 5G will be available in spring 2020 for US$1,500. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Infrastructure CES 2020, Lenovo Time running out for support on these Microsoft products Dell's foldable devices at CES 2020: Duet, Ori, and UFO About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content IBM Food Trust ensures savory olive oil and better coffee CES 2020 recap: 5G, devices, and what can enterprises learn from the monstrous tech event? Intel processor constraint to continue in 2020, says HPE 3 coolest gadgets at Pepcom Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada