https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/b-c-district-of-squamish-hit-by-ransomware/428026
B.C. district of Squamish hit by ransomware | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by WhataWin | Getty Images Privacy & Security B.C. district of Squamish hit by ransomware Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: March 4th, 2020 The southern B.C. district of Squamish has been victimized by ransomware for the second time in a year. The municipality of about 20,000 at the north end of Howe Sound said Tuesday the attack was discovered Feb. 27, resulting in many IT systems being closed shut. Most were brought back “with minimal data loss,” the district said in a news release. However, as of Tuesday the recreation booking engine Squamishlive was still offline. The municipality was trying to bring that system back online before Wednesday, when spring program registration is scheduled to open. “These types of viruses focus on encrypting data; not on stealing data or personal information,” says the statement. “There is no evidence to indicate that the personal information of citizens or employees was compromised.” However, since December a number of ransomware groups have added data theft to their strategy to put added pressure on victim organizations to pay. If initially, they don’t pay, the hackers threaten to slowly release the stolen data. Asked Tuesday how the district knows no data was taken, communications co-ordinator Rachael Boguski said an investigation on the attack is currently underway and no information is available beyond what was in the media release. The district government was also hit by ransomware in May, 2019. According to the district’s latest statement, over the past several months the district has been improving network security and building up network threat protection as a result of that attack. “Many of the changes implemented, such as additional firewalls, more robust spam protection, greater frequency of backups and overall network security upgrades to name a few, helped to minimize the impact of this one,” it says. “The district is now fast-tracking a move to cloud-based server hosting with virus protection and backups built-in.” A new IT position focusing on network security is also being funded in the 2020 budget. “Like so many government organizations we have become a target for well-funded criminal groups that are insistent upon creating havoc, and we are very thankful that no personal information appears to have been compromised,” District of Squamish Mayor Karen Elliott said in the statement. “Due to the expertise of our staff, the District quickly moved over to manual operations in key areas, ensuring that citizens saw little evidence of the interruption. “The security of District systems continues to evolve to minimize losses and ensure the protection of data against these very sophisticated attacks, which are an unfortunate reality that we may always be faced with.” Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security postmedia, ransomware, security strategies Hashtag Trending - Apple lawsuit, iPhone production bounces back, new Spotify subscription Google bolsters G Suite Hangouts with enterprise features amidst coronavirus outbreak About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada