https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hybrid-aws-outposts-a-great-option-for-manufacturing-healthcare-says-aws-director/427134
Hybrid AWS Outposts 'a great option' for manufacturing, healthcare, says AWS director | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Infrastructure Hybrid AWS Outposts ‘a great option’ for manufacturing, healthcare, says AWS director Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: February 10th, 2020 Amazon Web Services’ on-premises Outposts offering is the perfect solution for Canadian manufacturing and healthcare companies seeking to deepen their ties with the tech giant but couldn’t through the public cloud due to data sovereignty or latency issues, according to its director and technical advisor. “We think we’ve really delivered something that has value across multiple industry segments,” Joshua Burgin told the publication shortly after AWS announced the general availability of Outposts in Canada, roughly a month after it rolled out in the U.S. “They appreciate the fact that Outposts is fully managed by us when it comes to both hardware and software.” There’s been a lot of interest from enterprises across Canada, he added. Also: AWS is making moves in Canada, but so are its critics as protests disrupt summit AWS details steps to digital transformation, highlights machine learning “When it comes to large customers like Lululemon and national banks, the demand is off the charts for us to continue to take all of the frameworks we support and move up the stack to provide capabilities that they can embed in vertical-specific applications or horizontal capabilities like fraud detection, which applies to different industries,” explained Burgin. Canada’s growing media and entertainment footprint is keeping a close eye on Outposts as well, he added. “You have artists now that need ultra-low latency to actually do the real-time kind of animation and drawing where the speed of light actually matters for the interface when they’re using a wacom tablet,” he said. The general availability of Outposts in Canada is on the heels of the company’s other big cloud announcement in December. The company’s growing presence in Canada has warranted the introduction of a third AWS Availability Zone (AZ) in the country’s central region near Montreal, bringing the total global number of computing power hubs to 69. The new AZ was given a launch date of early 2020. While he didn’t provide an exact date, expect the new AZ to rollout “very soon” said Burgin. Cloud, Infrastructure AWS, outposts GSMA applies new restrictions as more companies depart MWC due to coronavirus outbreak U.S. indicts four Chinese military members for 2017 Equifax breach About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content BlackBerry adds Cylance to QNX, announces partnerships with AWS, Damon, and Renovo AWS makes machine learning fun AWS details steps to digital transformation, highlights machine learning Tips for coping with the constantly changing cloud scene Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada