https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-a-carbon-negative-microsoft-norwegian-consumer-council-slams-advertisers-chinas-high-speed-train/426203
Hashtag Trending - A carbon negative Microsoft, Norwegian Consumer Council slams advertisers, China's high-speed train | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – A carbon negative Microsoft, Norwegian Consumer Council slams advertisers, China’s high-speed train Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: January 17th, 2020 Microsoft says it wants to go carbon negative by 2030, the Norwegian Consumer Council releases a new report highlighting how digital marketing are breaking the rules – a lot, and Twitter can’t get enough of China’s new driverless high-speed train. Science continues to give us humans stern warnings about the world’s carbon problem. The planet’s temperature has already risen by 1-degree centigrade and if we don’t curb emissions, and temperatures continue to climb, science tells us that the results will be catastrophic. Microsoft says that’s why it’s launching a new initiative to become carbon negative by 2030. That’s not all though – by 2050 Microsoft says it will remove from the environment all the carbon the company has emitted either directly or by electrical consumption since it was founded in 1975. The company says it will fund this in part by expanding its internal carbon fee, which has been in place since 2012 and increased last year, to start charging not only Microsoft’s direct emissions but those from our supply and value chains. It’s a bold plan, which is why the company is also introducing a new $1 billion climate innovation fund to accelerate the global development of carbon reduction, capture, and removal technologies. The advertising industry is systematically breaking the law. The unsurprising yet detailed 200-page report released by the Norwegian Consumer Council is catching fire on Reddit, as it highlights how even 20 months after the introduction of GDPR, consumers are still “pervasively tracked and profiled online” and that “the situation is completely out of control.” The report notes that digital marketing and adtech industry players must make changes to comply with European regulation, in addition to respecting consumers’ fundamental rights and freedoms. And lastly, still trending on Twitter after several days is China’s new driverless, high-speed train that can take you from Beijing to the 2022 Winter Olympics at 200 miles per hour. To put that into perspective, that’s 108 miles in 47 minutes, down from the previous travel time of 3 hours. The train is outfitted with 5G and wireless charging. Facial recognition is used for checking-in. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Microsoft commits to carbon negative by 2030, among other environmental commitments Cyber Security Today - Privacy of mobile apps questioned, medical images poorly protected and more About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada