https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/oil-and-gas-industry-leaders-meeting-with-iot-experts-in-alberta-to-discuss-industry-issues/426908
Oil and gas industry leaders meeting with IoT experts in Alberta to discuss industry issues | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Emerging Tech Wireless & IoT Oil and gas industry leaders meeting with IoT experts in Alberta to discuss industry issues Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: February 5th, 2020 Leaders from the Canadian oil and gas industry are set to speak with a large number of players in the IoT space to discuss innovative solutions to the industry’s issues, with the event scheduled for Feb. 13 at Hotel Arts in Calgary. The event – which is being put on by The Alberta IoT Association in partnership with Techterra and Rogers Communications – will see challenges posed to the attendees with an opportunity for the two sides to discuss those challenges. Mark Scantlebury, chairperson of the Alberta IoT Association, said three of the biggest challenges they plan to address include the geographic dispersing of assets, the required periodic or constant monitoring of assets, and the high costs of the technology. “A good example would be monitoring the thousands of kilometres of pipelines and looking for very small leaks. This is typically done with aircraft that has a gas detector built into it. In some of the cases where the pipelines are carrying oil, the challenge is even greater because there is no gas present. This typically requires humans to drive/walk to the pipeline,” explained Scantlebury in an email to IT World Canada. “An IoT solution would add electronic monitoring that would send the data to a central repository in the cloud, analyzing the data and making it available to operations staff in a control room or out in the field.” When asked if Alberta IoT supports alternative energy sources as vehemently as they support the oil and gas industry, Scantlebury said that they are “industry independent” and explained that they have events in other industries planned for the near future and touted the transferability of the technology, no matter the industry. “The neat thing is that a lot of IoT technology is directly transferrable between industries, which will help diversify the Alberta economy,” he said. “We are building up relationships with a number of players in different industries, but that is an ongoing process.” Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Emerging Tech, Wireless & IoT Alberta IoT, IoT, oil and gas, oil and gas industry Hashtag Trending- Google accidentally mixes Photos storage; deep fake detection tool; fake traffic jam No expectation of privacy in an IP address, Alberta judge rules About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Inflection Point I An interview with AltaML’s managing director about AI’s role in shaping Calgary’s digital future Paranoid privacy tool can jam your smart speaker’s microphone AI is transforming the oil and gas industry: Insights from one of Canada’s largest producers 3 key Canadian telecom trends for 2020 Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada