https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-bmo-slashes-jobs-evil-corp-tiktok-suppresses-content/424850
Hashtag Trending – BMO slashes jobs, Evil Corp., TikTok suppresses content | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – BMO slashes jobs, Evil Corp., TikTok suppresses content Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: December 6th, 2019 The Bank of Montreal slashes thousands of jobs, the US and UK take down a Russian cyberhacking ring called Evil Corp., and TikTok admits to suppressing the reach of content created by certain users. The Bank of Montreal has announced that it’s cutting five per cent of its global workforce, impacting about 2,275 positions. It marks one of the most dramatic job cuts by a Canadian bank in more than 15 years, according to Bloomberg. BMO has spent $357 million on its drive to improve efficiency, mostly for severance payments. BMO has not revealed details about when or where the job cuts will occur. The news, which is trending on LinkedIn, has prompted a lot of users to comment on how the cuts came during a non-recession event, leaving the door open for even more job cuts to occur once the overdue event does come around. Twitter is having all sorts of fun with this news – Intelligence agencies in the United States and the United Kingdom worked jointly to expose a Russian cybercrime group called – get ready for this one – Evil Corp. The US Federal Bureau of Investigation is offering a $5 million reward for information leading to the arrest of the alleged ringleader, Maksim Yakubets. A BBC reporter tweeted that as well as his alleged criminality, Yakubets is said by the US authorities to have worked for the FSB – a leading Russian intelligence organization and one of the successors to the KGB. And lastly, trending on Reddit is the news that the social network app with more than 1 billion downloads recently admitted that it has policies that suppress the reach of content created by users who are “assumed to be vulnerable to cyberbullying.” This means people with facial disfigurement, autism, Down syndrome, and “disabled people or people with some facial problems such as birthmarks, or slight squint.” German site Netzpolitik says a recently obtained list of flagged users included people with and without disabilities and people whose bios included hashtags like #fatwoman or had rainbow flags and other LGBTQ identifiers. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Huawei moves U.S. research centre to Canada Cyber Security Today - An email gift card scam, please stop re-using passwords and more open data found on Amazon storage About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada