https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-facebook-faces-lawsuit-find-my-mobile-a-legend-passes-away/427574
Hashtag Trending - Facebook faces lawsuit, Find My Mobile, a legend passes away | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Facebook faces lawsuit, Find My Mobile, a legend passes away Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: February 21st, 2020 Facebook faces *gasp* another lawsuit, Samsung scares everyone with a mysterious notification, and the legend behind cut copy and paste passes away. Facebook is facing a lawsuit from the US Internal Revenue Service, which claims Facebook owes $9 billion in unpaid taxes. The crux of the case is a 2010 deal between Facebook and an Irish subsidiary it uses to shuffle money around internationally. The lawsuit went to trial in a San Francisco court on Tuesday. The IRS alleges Facebook undervalued the intellectual property it sold to the subsidiary, dodging billions in taxes as a result. In a statement provided to The Verge, Facebook’s Berti Thomson said the company “stand[s] behind” the 2010 transaction.” Thousands of users took to Twitter after receiving a notification on their phones from the “Find My Mobile” app, which simply showed the number 1, worried they were hacked or haunted. Following the widespread panic, Samsung responded saying the notification was unintentionally sent out as part of “internal testing,” and assured users that “there is no effect on your device.” And lastly, Larry Tesler, who died on Monday, might not be a household name like Bill Gates or Steve Jobs, but his contributions are legendary. In addition to his contributions Apple hardware, Tesler was also known for his efforts to make software and user interfaces more accessible. In addition to “cut,” “copy,” and “paste” terminologies – what would we do without them – Tesler was also an advocate for modeless computing, a unique approach to user interface design. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts TekSavvy partners with Ericsson to upgrade broadband for over 30,000 households in southwestern Ontario Cyber Security Today - 2FA mandatory at Amazon Ring, why upgrading Windows is important, and big drama at MGM hotels About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada