https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/no-reason-to-ship-credit-card-data-to-third-parties-says-former-freedom-mobile-ciso/417823
No reason to ship credit card data to third parties, says expert | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security No reason to ship credit card data to third parties, says expert Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: May 8th, 2019 Organizations shouldn’t ship data to a third party for processing that includes sensitive subscriber credit card and verification numbers, says a Canadian IT security expert. “There’s absolutely zero reason for a third party to have access to credit card numbers unless they are a payment processor,” Michael Ball, a former CISO for Canadian organizations who has held several IT security roles. As a best practice, Ball said, credit card data should be tokenized — that is, substituted with non-sensitive data in the form of an encrypted token. The token can still be used for playing around within an application, but the data it represents can’t be exploited. The Payment Card Industry (PCI) standard for handling credit card data doesn’t allow the transfer of real payment card information to third parties, he added. Ball was speaking after Freedom Mobile acknowledged Tuesday that a third-party processor called Apptium Technologies had not adequately protected a database the carrier sent the firm “to streamline our retail customer support processes.” Data on 15,000 customers “was exposed as the result of a misconfigured server” by Apptium, the carrier said. Related Articles Unprotected database of thousands of Freedom Mobile subscribers found by security company Security researchers say they found an unprotected database with personal and credit card information on thousands of Freedom Mobile subscribers... May 7th, 2019 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Headquartered in Virgina with offices in several cities including Mississauga, Ont., Apptium sells a platform that enables organizations to improve dealings with customers. Telcos are among its target market, with customers including Canada’s Allstream. Apptium couldn’t be reached for comment by press time. According to security researchers with a company called vpnMentor who broke the story, the open and unencrypted database included customer names, email address, home and mobile phone number, home addresses, dates of birth and credit card and card verification numbers. In an email vpnMentor said the database was accessed through an open port. The researchers thought there was data on 1.5 million customers, but the carrier said it was 15,000. Those affected are customers who had opened or made any changes to their accounts at 17 Freedom Mobile retail locations between March 25 and April 15, and any customers who made changes or opened accounts on April 16. Third party risk The risk of third parties being a source of security incidents came to the fore after the 2013 breach of U.S. retailer Target, when hackers got into the company’s system through a heating and ventilation contractor that had online access. Since then Ball said, organizations have learned to review the IT security policies of third parties, possibly obliging them to either go through or show evidence of penetration tests to prove their readiness. Service contracts should include penalties for misusing data. Asked how a primary data provider can assure itself that anyone — employee or third party — doesn’t make mistakes handling data that result in a security incident, Ball said every organization must have processes in place, including checklists for who can access data and how. “There should be a number of ways that would protect data from open Internet access,” he said. “There is no reason for this data to have open Internet access.” Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security data breach, Freedom Mobile, security strategies Partnerships are essential for smart cities to make a difference for citizens Errors blamed for 21 per cent of data breaches: Verizon report About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada