https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canadas-privacy-commissioner-asks-for-input-to-address-ai-privacy-concerns/426720
Canada's privacy commissioner asks for input to address AI privacy concerns | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Big Data & Analytics Privacy & Security Public Sector Canada’s privacy commissioner asks for input to address AI privacy concerns Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: January 31st, 2020 The Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada (OPC) is asking industry stakeholders to bring forward their concerns and ideas to address the privacy issues of AI in Canada. The announcement states that they are currently engaged in legislative reform policy analysis of both federal privacy laws. The OPC said that they realize the challenges that AI poses and that “responsible innovation involving artificial intelligence systems must take place in a regulatory environment that respects fundamental rights and creates the conditions for trust in the digital economy to flourish.” Aaron Shum, practice lead and executive advisor, security, risk and compliance at Info-Tech Research Group, said in the case of the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA), such a request is needed to bring the regulations up to par with the complexities of the issue. “This call for public input on protecting privacy rights under AI is a common technique used by other privacy regulators and standard bodies, as a crowd-sourcing of concerns and variables that can help the regulator understand the various viewpoints from citizens, private industries and from industry experts,” said Shum in an email to IT World Canada. “In its (PIPEDA) current form there will be no feasible way to leverage it to enforce privacy rules in technologies like AI. Ultimately, because of the enormous data input that is needed for AI to function autonomously, and with true AI making decisions that can affect the rights of people, there are a host of ethical, regulatory, and operational considerations that must go into AI development.” The OPC has asked stakeholders to submit their suggestions by March 13, 2020. Artificial Intelligence, Big Data & Analytics, Privacy & Security, Public Sector OPC, Privacy Commissioner of Canada Ottawa should follow allies in public-private collaboration, says cyber industry group Hashtag Trending - Amazon engineer dunks on Ring, Apple and Broadcom in hot water, Avast fallout About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Canadian privacy czar takes Facebook to court over Cambridge Analytica scandal StatsCan backs off plans to collect personal data for spending analysis BC firm criticized by Canadian privacy commissioners in Facebook-Cambridge Analytica scandal Over the last year, 28 million Canadians impacted by data breaches: privacy commissioner Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada