https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/kik-lays-off-staff-shuts-down-messanger-app-amid-crypto-legal-battle/422140
Kik lays off staff, shuts down messenger app amid crypto legal battle | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Ecommerce Kik lays off staff, shuts down messenger app amid crypto legal battle Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: September 23rd, 2019 Kik Interactive announced Monday that Kik will be shutting down its messaging service and shrinking its team to 19, a reduction that will affect more than 100 employees. Kik is now focused exclusively on its cryptocurrency Kin, the company’s CEO Ted Livingston said in a company blog post. It’s because of the Securities and Exchange Commission attempts to label them a security that the company now finds itself changing direction, he wrote. “Becoming a security would kill the usability of any cryptocurrency and set a dangerous precedent for the industry. So with the SEC working to characterize almost all cryptocurrencies as securities we made the decision to step forward and fight.” Kin raised nearly $100 million in its ICO when it launched two years ago. The SEC filed a lawsuit against Kik back in June, suggesting the ICO was illegal. “Going forward our 19 person team will be focused on one goal: getting millions of people to buy Kin to use it.” Livingston explained the team plans to accomplish this through a three-part strategy: allow the Kin blockchain to support a billion consumers making a dozen transactions a day; increasing adoption and growth for developers who use Kin in their apps; and making it easier to buy and use Kin by building a mobile wallet. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Ecommerce kik Cisco selects SingularityNET to host decentralized AGI project Hashtag Trending - Google voice data privacy; gaming scholarships; Apple to retain Mac Pro production in the U.S. About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada