https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-advertisers-leaving-youtube-facebook-pauses-location-history-apple-getting-less-innovative/415242
Hashtag Trending – Advertisers leaving YouTube; Facebook pauses location history; Apple getting less innovative | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Advertisers leaving YouTube; Facebook pauses location history; Apple getting less innovative Tom Li @itworldca Published: February 22nd, 2019 Advertisers pulling ads off YouTube due to possible pedophile network; Facebook lets users pause location history; Apple loses number one innovator spot. Trending on Google, advertisers are halting ads on YouTube over news of pedophile network on the site. A CNBC article points the problem to users leaving time stamps of scenes that show child nudity and writing inappropriate messages in the comment section. Due to these concerns, major advertisers including Nestle, Disney, and Epic games have stopped all advertising on YouTube and urges the company to take proper action. In a statement, YouTube states that any behavior that inappropriate minors would not be tolerated. It’s also actively informing law enforcement and permanently banning offending accounts. Also trending on Google, the Facebook app is looking to make managing location privacy little easier. Background Location Control, once toggled, would prevent the Facebook app from saving your location history. This is a good option for users who want to keep Facebook’s geography-based features active but are worried about privacy. Background location control is currently available through the settings panel om the latest Android app. Apple users can already change location saving states, so the feature is unneeded. Trending on Reddit, According to Fast Company, Apple has lost its innovative touch. In its 2019 Most Innovative Companies report, Fast Company dropped Apple’s position from number one to number 17. This year, the Chinese app maker Meituan Dianping snags the number one spot for facilitating $33.8 billion in transactions. Grab, the Singapore-based Uber competitor ranks number two, and the NBA seats number three for expanding into eSports and boosting its total revenue by 25 per cent. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Please also subscribe to us on Apple Podcasts and Google Podcasts. I’m your host Tom Li. Thanks for listening! Careers hashtag, hashtag trending, podcasts Huawei boosts R&D spend, hires more in Canada as U.S. tensions rise Cyber Security Today: Feb. 22, 2018 -- Fake news worries, upgrade these apps and don't get gassed About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada