https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/3-sources-of-inspiration-from-the-canadiancio-summit-leverton/410378
3 sources of inspiration from the CanadianCIO Summit: Leverton | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Leadership Managed Services & Outsourcing 3 sources of inspiration from the CanadianCIO Summit: Leverton Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: October 16th, 2018 This is a guest submission by Jaime Leverton, general manager and vice-president of Canada & APAC for Cogeco Peer 1. Cogeco Peer 1 was the sponsor of the CanadianCIO Summit. Earlier this month, technology leaders from across the country gathered in Muskoka to participate in discussions about the most pressing technology issues facing organizations today. The events were structured to encourage conversation, and gave CIOs from various industries the opportunity to share unexpected connections and insights. Here are some of my most memorable moments from the weekend: 1. It’s easy to get excited about the potential of emerging technologies, but the real magic is found in the early wins. Craig Tavares, director, product innovation & technology, was one the experts on the panel, “Finding Early Wins in Emerging Technologies” and shared some astonishing insights. He spoke about the staggering depth and breadth of AI technology in current, new and emerging products and services. Of note, he described how machine learning can sense, reason and act, and has been applied not just for image recognition, but also for spam filtering of email programs and fraud detection of credit cards. 2. Women are present (and killing it!) in the technology sector. I was excited to see the number of impressive female leaders and speakers participating in the Summit. I had the pleasure of sitting in on a presentation by Fariba Anderson, CEO at AcuteNet and a client of Cogeco Peer 1, who shared her wealth of knowledge on transforming the healthcare sector using technology. Sharon Bauer, senior manager on KPMG’s privacy team, led an interactive session about Canada’s privacy regulations, GDPR and digital sovereignty. Sharon asserted that despite being a European legislation, GDPR raises the bar on privacy globally. 3. Cloud computing for business is gaining traction in a real way. It was great to hear conversation about one of the most practical, usable and valuable technologies available to businesses: cloud computing. Bertrand Labelle, vice-president, marketing & innovation of Cogeco Peer 1, participated in a panel about “Taking Cloud to the Next Level.” Together, the panelists reviewed best practices for embracing cloud computing for business, and discussed how cloud can enhance the flexibility of businesses to help them achieve their goals. In 20 years working in the Canadian technology space, I’ve never been more inspired. I strongly believe Canada will continue to maintain its reputation as a global leader in technology development and adaptation. Thank you to the IT World Canada team for organizing this timely Summit. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Leadership, Managed Services & Outsourcing CanadianCIO Summit, CanadianCIO Summit 2018, Cogeco Peer 1, women in tech StatsCan report: 21 per cent of Canadian businesses impacted by a cyber event in 2017 SAP announces opening of new Canadian HQ in Toronto About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content 10 women advancing AI in Canada AI isn’t great at solving problems, and other surprising truths discussed by experts at Brace for Impact event Helen Wetherley-Knight, CIO of Calgary Drop-In Centre’s Philosophy of Women in IT 3 women in tech size up the gender gap in 2019 Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada