https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cisco-announces-expansion-of-collaborative-tools/418927
Cisco announces expansion of collaborative tools | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Software Wireless & IoT Cisco announces expansion of collaborative tools Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: June 12th, 2019 SAN DIEGO – Day two of Cisco Live included major announcements around Cisco System Inc.’s collaborative tools suite. During the day’s opening keynote session, as well as in a panel later in the day, Amy Chang, the senior vice-president of the collaboration technology group at Cisco, spoke about the importance of these types of tools and her vision for the future. People Insights, a tool that acts something like your own digital assistant, is a big part of it, she explained. We’re delivering technology that works smoothly together and is backed by intelligence and business insights,” said Chang. Amy Chang speaking on a panel at Cisco Live about the advancements in Cisco’s collaboration portfolio. Photo by Buckley Smith. People Insights The major announcement on day two was the addition of Cisco’s People Insights tool to the entire portfolio. “This technology will be so foundational to build highly personalized experiences… really changing how we work,” said Amy Chang. “This is the type of experience we are talking about here.” It can gather an entire portfolio of information on the individual you are interacting with; from newspaper articles to the financial details of the company they work for and many other useful insights. You can also add your own notes on people that will be included in their profile every time you interact with them over Cisco’s collaboration tools. Previously only available on Webex Meetings, it will now be available on messaging, calling, and Jabber. Unification The second announcement was centred around the unification of the entire collaboration portfolio. To do so Cisco will be applying the same operating system to all of its devices and have designed all of its applications so that they will all be interoperable. Additionally, the Webex application, which Cisco acquired over 10 years ago, will now work for messaging, calling, and meetings across a vast slate of applications like Microsoft O365, G-Suite, Salesforce, Jira, ServiceNow, and many others. “Why should we not work hand in hand? Our customers want that. Google and Apple and Slack,” said Amy Chang. “And why would we not want that to be the case? And that philosophy you can see throughout our organization.” In addition, tools like Microsoft Word can now be used directly within the Webex messaging platform. Cisco also announced that Jabber and Webex will now be able to communicate; so that no matter your preference, you can now reach the people you need to easily. Some other changes to the portfolio that were announced included: -Transcription of meetings notes will now be available -Co-editing through Google G-Suite tools will now be possible from Webex Teams -The cloud-based Customer Journey Platform tool for customer service centres is now a part of the Webex portfolio *Buckley Smith’s travel and accommodations to cover Cisco Live were paid for by Cisco. This article was not reviewed externally before publication. Careers, Software, Wireless & IoT Cisco, Cisco Live, WebEx Cyber Security Today: FBI warning, more phony phone call scams and distrust on the Internet Canada should think again about having the ability to use offensive cyber weapons: Expert About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cisco commits $225 million to COVID-19 response Suddenly working from home and need a solution that works? Here are some options Cisco leadership undergoes another shuffle involving Amy Chang and David Goeckeler In response to COVID-19, Cisco is handing out free 90-day Webex business licenses Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada