https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/firms-have-to-get-back-to-cyber-security-basics-government-expert-tells-parliament/419986
Firms have to get back to cybersecurity basics, government expert tells Parliament | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Andre Boucher testifying before public safety committee July 15, 2019. Source: YouTube Privacy & Security Firms have to get back to cybersecurity basics, government expert tells Parliament Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: July 16th, 2019 Investing in the basics of cybersecurity is the best way Canadian organizations can lower the risk of data breaches, a parliamentary committee looking into the recent huge data theft at Desjardins Group of credit unions. “Ultimately, there is no silver bullet when it comes to cybersecurity,” Andre Boucher, deputy minister and director of operations at the Canadian Centre for Cyber Security told members of the House of Commons public safety committee on Monday. “We cannot be complacent.” “This incident underscores the human element of cyber security.” he said, “Fundamentally, the security of our systems depends on humans — users, administrators, security teams. Adopting a holistic approach to security is critical. This means starting with a culture of security and putting in place the right policies, procedures and cyber security practices. This ensures that when something goes wrong, as it almost inevitably will, there is a plan in place to address it. “Then we need to invest in and empowering our people. Training and awareness of our people are very important. Only with awareness can we continuously develop and instill good security practices, a fundamental step in securing Canada’s cyber systems. And we always need to identify and protect Canada’s critical assets: Know where your key data lives, protect it, monitor the protection, be ready to respond.” Related Articles Laying blame on employee in Desjardins data breach is ignoring the big picture, security experts say Despite many blaming the employee who allegedly leaked almost 3 million individuals' information in the recent data breach at The... June 21st, 2019 Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Huge data theft by employee at Canadian credit union Employee misconduct is among the biggest worries of CISOs. They hope staffers can be trusted so the focus is on... June 21st, 2019 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC The centre is a federal department which advises the government, the private sector and the public on privacy and security. The committee was holding a special hearing into last month’s revelation that an employee was behind the theft of information on more than 2.7 million personal and 173,000 business. Witnesses, including the RCMP and senior Desjardins officials, carefully stayed away from discussing any details of the incident because of an ongoing investigation by Quebec police. Desjardins chief executive officer Guy Cormier blamed the incident on a single “malicious employee.” Desjardins chief operating officer Denis Berthiaume added that the company had safety measures but the employee “found a way to break the rules.” He also said that earlier in the day Desjardins announced it is now offering free lifetime data and identity theft protection for consumer and business depositors. Customers will be fully reimbursed for non- authorized transactions. Victims of identity theft through Desjardins will get corporate help in restoring their identity, plus up to $50,000 if they suffer loss from ID theft (for example, from lost wages). Desjardins spends $70 million a year on cybersecurity and privacy, said Berthiaume. One MP complained the verbal response of the RCMP, which is not responsible for the criminal investigation, was weak. Another said its important to manage public expectations about what police can do after a breach has been discovered. A third wondered if the financial sector has uniform cybersecurity standards that ensure the money of Canadians is safe. Boucher said the Canadian financial sector is one of the most mature in the country. Asked what he advises organizations for combating human risks, he replied, “the best approach is get back to basics and have a holistic approach to security. “Security for staff begins with a good training program so they understand what needs to be protected.” Awareness needs to be ongoing, he added and periodically refreshed, supported by business processes. “Every large enterprise has to measure the value of its own key assets and make a risk-based decision on how much it’s going to invest to protect those assets. Starting with a position of zero trust is the reality of today’s complex environment we live in. Don’t assume your systems are going to work on their own. It takes a holistic investment in a security program in the right people, right processes and the right technology.” (This story has been updated from the original to include testimony from Desjardins officials) Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security data breach Public skeptical over privacy protection in Sidewalk Labs' Toronto waterfront plan It's time for Canada to focus on the scale-up challenge About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Koodo admits February data breach, data already being sold on dark web Winnipeg-based online pharmacy warns of data breach Hashtag Trending – Facebook admits to another data leak, Netflilx’s war on password sharing, Google voice-assistant training Trend Micro admits staffer stole and sold customer data Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada