https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/samsung-galaxy-s10-5g-wont-be-coming-to-canada/415184
Samsung Galaxy S10 5G won't be coming to Canada | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Mobility Wireless & IoT Samsung Galaxy S10 5G won’t be coming to Canada Tom Li @itworldca Published: February 21st, 2019 Samsung officially launched its 2019 smartphone lineup during its Unpacked event held on Feb. 20 in San Francisco. Alongside the famous Galaxy Fold foldable smartphone, Samsung also revealed its Galaxy 10 series smartphones. Among them is the Samsung Galaxy S10 5G, the Galaxy with the most interesting features. Pictured: Galaxy S10 Plus Although it shares a name with other Galaxy S10 phones, the Galaxy S10 5G is a different beast entirely. With the Galaxy S10s, Samsung got rid of the top bezel and stretched the AMOLED display to the top edge. This is called the Infinity-O display, and discounting the Galaxy Fold, the Galaxy S10 5G has the largest one, coming in at 6.7″ filled by a QHD resolution. Infinity-O displays are also rated for HDR10+ certified. Having the biggest display means a bigger body, and a bigger body means more room to increase battery capacity. The Galaxy S10 Plus has a 4,100mAh battery, but the Galaxy S10 5G has a much larger, 4,500mAh battery. Considering that it supports reverse wireless charging, a bigger battery means more run time for both the galaxy and your phone. As with all Samsung Galaxy S10 phones, the Galaxy 5G comes with system on chips (SoC) built using 7nm transistors. Samsung has yet to disclose which processor will be available in North America, but it’s a good guess that it will be Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 855. The powerful chip will be paired with 8GB of RAM and up to 256GB of storage. That feels a bit constraint considering the Galaxy S10 Plus can reach up to 1TB. On the back of the phone is four rear cameras. In addition to the telephoto, wide, and ultra-wide lenses, the Galaxy S10 5G also features a depth sensor for AR. Imagine an extra sensor next to the flash. As its name implies, the Galaxy S10 5G features a 5G modem, likely the Qualcomm Snapdragon X50. The Snapdragon X50 is compatible with mmWaves as well as frequencies below 1GHz, and boasts a top data rate of 5Gbps. In addition, because it’s a standalone chip, it can be optionally integrated into phones that will be available in markets with 5G connectivity. The last bit is disappointing because Canada won’t be getting 5G until at least 2020. Therefore, Samsung has axed the Galaxy S10 5G from Canadian release. Given the popularity of the Galaxy Note series, Canadians may want a larger Galaxy phone. None-the-less, the Samsung Galaxy S10 5G will be available sometime in June. Pricing has yet to be determined, but don’t expect it to be below the Galaxy S10 Plus, which starts at US$999. Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility, Wireless & IoT 5G, Qualcomm, Samsung, samsung galaxy S10, Samsung galaxy S10 plus, snapdragon Hashtag Trending - Netflix commits to Toronto; Google snafu with Nest; Apple announces overhaul BlackBerry completes acquisition of Cylance About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content ISED details 3,500MHz 5G spectrum auction criterias Rajeev Suri to step down as president and CEO of Nokia Coronavirus ‘decimated’ device manufacturing in February, says IDC Ericsson announces partnership with Carleton University to research 5G tech Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada