https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cira-calls-for-federal-parties-to-support-an-open-canadian-internet/422062
CIRA calls for federal parties to support an open Canadian Internet | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure CIRA calls for federal parties to support an open Canadian Internet Tom Li @itworldca Published: September 21st, 2019 The Canadian Internet Registration Authority (CIRA), the non-profit organization that oversees all .ca domain names, published its new vision for the future internet in Canada. “We believe strongly that the future of the internet and the future of Canada are inextricably linked,” said Byron Holland, CIRA president, in a statement. “We believe that the internet is an overwhelming force for good in the world, and with the right vision, Canada can become a global leader in its resurgence. We invite all parties and candidates to embrace our principles and help build an open, trusted, and people-centered internet for Canada.” In its release, CIRA outlined several foundational principles it believes would lead to a better internet. It challenges the Canadian federal bodies, as well as the public sector, to focus on trust, openness, and people-centric features. Breaking it down further, CIRA highlighted a list of finer focuses, including accessibility, transparency, security, and democracy as key points to support its vision. Its letter has gained support from a number of organizations such as the east coast independent Internet Service Provider TekSavvy, the Canadian Institute for Cybersecurity, and the Internet Society Canada Chapter. The Internet has become a cornerstone of modern communication. According to CIRA’s 2019 Internet Factbook, 92 per cent of users with home Internet connections said access to high-speed internet at home is important, and 87 per cent of Internet users have purchased something online within this year. But the report also reveals the Internet’s darker side. It highlights that 32 per cent of people are reluctant to use social media or participate in online discussions over cyberbullying and harassment. Furthermore, it states that “at least half of all Canadians” are worried about privacy violations by social media platforms. These are just a few of the issues CIRA is pushing the regulatory bodies to address. In May, CIRA and the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) asked 6,200 Canadians to measure their service speeds using a provided device. The data will be matched against their provider’s advertised speeds and reveal trends in network performance. CIRA will host a panel discussion at the Canadians Connected meeting on Sept. 25 to discuss the upcoming election’s effect on the Internet and digital policies. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure Canadian government, Canadian Internet, Canadian telecommunications, Cira Cyber Security Today - News on two botnets, advice for data breach victims and defend your Defender Hashtag Trending - Vancouver opens door to ride-hailing; 100,000 AI-generated headshots hit the market; Google invests record amount in renewable energy About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content A quick guide for businesses navigating Canada’s COVID-19 Economic Response Plan Canada has highest wireless value among G7 nations: U.S. study An innovative framework that will help the IoT industry scale into the billions Why pizza party security training doesn’t cut it anymore Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada