https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/bell-rogers-telus-and-others-temporarily-remove-internet-data-caps/428560
Bell, Rogers, Telus and others temporarily remove internet data caps | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image source: Panumas Nikhomkhai from Pexel Infrastructure IT Workplace Bell, Rogers, Telus and others temporarily remove internet data caps Tom Li @itworldca Published: March 17th, 2020 As the COVID-19 virus keeps more of the workforce home, major Canadian internet service providers (ISPs) are removing the monthly data cap on their internet subscriptions. While the unlimited services are only temporary, certain ISPs are hoping that they could help upkeep productivity in the meantime. Some updates from ISPs include: Rogers and its flanker brand Fido have removed data caps until May 31. The company has also announced a six-month trial of Microsoft 365 and Microsoft Teams. In addition, they have removed long-distance calling fees until April 30. Bell and Telus have waived data overage charges for their home internet subscribers until April 30. Telus has also waived its pay-per-use roaming charges for postpaid Telus and Koodo Mobility customers outside of North America, Central America, and the Caribbean. TekSavvy has suspended data overage fees until April 5. The change is automatic and does not require any action from the customers. As the COVID-19 continues to spread, companies are closing their offices and sending workers home to work remotely. To accommodate the influx, various enterprise communication tools have received temporary feature upgrades for free. They range from better video conferencing capabilities to increased participant counts. Microsoft Teams, Google Hangouts, Zoho, and Cisco Webex are a few notable mentions. For more news about how COVID-19 is impacting the industry, click here: COVID-19 In a blogpost, Cloudflare reported that internet usage has greatly increased during both day and night since companies started to encourage their employees to work from home. At the time of writing, Canada had 424 confirmed COVID-19 cases. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, IT Workplace Bell, broadband Internet, COVID-19, Internet access, ISP, remote workforce, Rogers, Telus Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Hashtag Trending - Amazon goes on hiring spree; Apple slapped with massive fine; invisible censorship About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Insulating your business from COVID-19 impacts TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Telus says it’s providing free high-speed internet to low-income families for 60 days in response to COVID-29 Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada