https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/trend-micro-acquires-cloud-conformity/423128
Trend Micro acquires Cloud Conformity | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Privacy & Security Trend Micro acquires Cloud Conformity Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: October 21st, 2019 Trend Micro Inc. today expanded its cloud security portfolio through acquiring Cloud Security Posture Management (CSPM) firm Cloud Conformity Pty. Ltd., which was founded in Australia but is headquartered in the United States of America. According to a Gartner report, at least 99 per cent of cloud security failures will be the customer’s fault through 2023, and 50 per cent of enterprises will unknowingly have IaaS services exposed to the internet by 2021. CSPM focuses on identifying and mitigating cloud misconfigurations before they become a security threat. Cloud Conformity’s services automatically identify and repair cloud infrastructure configurations issues, while ensuring compliance with regulatory standards like PCI, GDPR, HIPAA, and NIST. “We have been laser-focused on building integrated security for the cloud since its birth over a decade ago, unlike other vendors who are now attempting to stitch together disparate cloud technologies,” said Eva Chen, chief executive officer for Trend Micro. “As more enterprises move to the cloud, our customers feel they’re operating amid a wild-west approach to cloud implementations that leave them with unmanaged risk. As an AWS technology partner of the year for 2019, Cloud Conformity understands these implementations and the risks. Their offering perfectly complements our own portfolio and provides immediate value to customers. Both the people and technology are a great fit for Trend Micro.” CSPMs are in high demand according to research from the Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc.; which stated 40 per cent of its respondents as selecting CSPM as a top area that their organizations will make a significant investment into to protect cloud native applications. This point was reiterated by Doug Cahill, a senior analyst and practice director for cybersecurity with ESG, who said that such services can eliminate a lot of the risk of operating high-value data in the cloud. “What’s driving market demand for Cloud Security Posture Management solutions? Well, it is a mix of security and compliance use cases with a common thread of identifying and correcting misconfigured cloud services that create risk. Risk of data loss. Risk of unauthorized access to externally facing workloads, object stores, and even the cloud console. And the risk of not meeting and maintaining compliance with industry regulations,” said Cahill. “With the constant state of change of cloud services, it is critical that CSPMs are employed to maintain a hardened configuration for all cloud services.” Cloud, Privacy & Security cloud, Cloud Conformity, cloud security, Trend Micro Google Pixel 4 XL review: features aplenty, short on battery Hashtag Trending - Microsoft admits Android is best; AI solves Rubiks Cube; Selfies are for narcissists About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content The aftermath of a data breach and how to secure your business From ransomware infections to cryptomining scams, fake factory honeypot provides lessons for CISOs Malware is going to get weirder in 2020, so it’s time for enterprises to get weird too, says Trend Micro exec OpenText Enfuse 2019: The Carbonite acquisition, new apps, and updates Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada