https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-apple-breaks-chinese-labour-law-russia-accuses-ad-giants-of-election-interference-120-million-will-need-reskilling/421627
Hashtag Trending – Apple breaks Chinese labour law; Russia accuses ad giants of election interference; 120 million will need reskilling | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Apple breaks Chinese labour law; Russia accuses ad giants of election interference; 120 million will need reskilling Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: September 10th, 2019 First up we turn to LinkedIn. Apple and its manufacturing partner, Foxconn, has found itself in some pretty big headlines in recent times with the tariffs being levied against by the US government due to its use of China to manufacture its product. And now come some pretty serious allegations as China Labour Watch launched a report outlining a variety of labour violations in Apple’s manufacturing facilities; notably including harsh and unethical working conditions. While Apple has denied many of the claims in the report, it has admitted to its use of an illegal amount of temporary workers in efforts to build its newest iPhone, which is set to launch this week. Next up on the docket, another big story for you, this time trending on Reddit. In a twist of irony, Russia, which was accused of using advertising giants like Facebook and Google to manipulate the most recent US elections, has now accused those same advertising platforms of interfering with their own recent elections. According to Russian election laws, political ads are not to run on election day, which is something that Google and Facebook both did on Sunday. Last but absolutely not least, we have a story that could affect many of you out there listening today. We have all heard about how automation could affect our working lives and how our jobs could be at risk. And a report from IBM that is trending on LinkedIn, says that as many as 120 million people worldwide will require reskilling in the next three years, for the sake of not losing their positions as artificial intelligence makes more and more of an impact every day in the workplace. As if that wasn’t heavy enough, the same report says that reskilling takes more than 10 times as long, for a variety of reasons, in our modern world as it did just a few years ago. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Huawei Kirin 990 chipset first to have a 5G modem Panasonic launches new Toughbook 55 in Canada About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada