https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canadian-tech-workers-least-likely-to-explore-new-careers-according-to-indeed/427915
Canadian tech workers least likely to explore new careers, according to Indeed | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Canadian tech workers least likely to explore new careers, according to Indeed Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: February 28th, 2020 While exploring new fields is common among many on the job hunt in Canada, software engineers and web developers rarely seek new careers, a recent report from Indeed revealed. The research, published by Indeed economist, Brendon Bernard, measured how often Canadian job seekers consider changing occupations by comparing their most recent work experience, as indicated by job titles on resumes uploaded to Indeed, with the types of positions they click on. Seven of the 15 job titles with the lowest out-click rates are in either computers or engineering roles such as mechanical designers. Pay, skills and career outlook all play a role. “The specialized skills and positive long-term outlook for these occupations mean there’s little reason to look elsewhere,” the report reads. Young Canadians looking for careers with bright outlooks that they’ll stick with should consider the tech and healthcare fields, according to the report. For employers struggling to fill vacant positions, Indeed suggests they can expand their candidate pools to a great extent by widening their focus from experience to applicable skills. However, the fact is that the Canadian labour market is in a continuous state of churn and exploring new career options is the norm for most job seekers in the country. Hundreds of thousands of people start and end jobs every month, according to Statistics Canada. Careers indeed Cyber Security Today - Security conference offers advice, healthcare industry warning and macro phishing alert Ericsson announces partnership with Carleton University to research 5G tech About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada