https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/more-collaboration-needed-to-improve-national-cyber-resilience-says-bank-of-canada-exec/423916
More collaboration needed to improve national cyber resilience, says Bank of Canada exec | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cisco Canada's Jack Pango, left, and Ontario CISO Mohammad Qureshi were among speakers at ITAC event. Howard Solomon photo. Privacy & Security Public Sector More collaboration needed to improve national cyber resilience, says Bank of Canada exec Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: November 14th, 2019 More candid threat sharing between companies and governments is needed to help protect critical infrastructure and residents from cyber attacks, said experts, including a senior official of the Bank of Canada, at a meeting on Tuesday with the Information Technology Association of Canada (ITAC). Filipe Dinis, Bank of Canada. “We need to urgently step up the spirit of collaboration throughout the Canadian economy,” Filipe Dinis, the bank’s chief operating officer said during the meeting. “We need to encourage regular exercises that present companies with complex scenarios to test their cyber defenses and response capabilities. Even the process of designing risk scenarios can help companies determine potential sources of risk.” He also suggested that regulators who oversee various industries might create “trusted secure channels” so sensitive threat-related information from a victim can be exchanged while protecting them from being publicly shamed. “Further, governments could also consider strengthening minimum requirements around cyber resilience and mandate industry-wide and cross-sectoral testing that requires institutions to fix problems identified by the tests.” The Bank of Canada plans to hold “regular, realistic and stringent” tabletop tests with financial institutions. “I don’t expect that we’ll design the perfect regulations here today,” he told the meeting. “But I would suggest that there is room to enhance our current regulatory frameworks that rely on financial penalties, albeit not exclusively. After all, if company management is unable to accurately gauge the risk of a systemic cyber event, it may well decide the fine for non-compliance is a cost that is worth paying.” A number of sectors are doing some collaboration, he added, citing the work of ITAC — which represents some of the country’s biggest tech companies — and the CIO Strategy Council. But significant challenges remain, he added. “What’s more, we need to act quickly and forcefully to deal with them,” he said. He urged industry groups to work with public sector authorities, including regulatory bodies and intelligence agencies, to design and implement national cyber exercises and penetration tests. “It’s now time to build exercises that involve multiple economic sectors, to provide a more demanding and realistic test of our economic cybersecurity. “We need to build mechanisms that will significantly increase the sharing of cyber threat information and cyber defense best practices between public and private sector organizations. This will be particularly important for smaller companies that have fewer resources to dedicate to cybersecurity. “We should also consider opportunities to build sector-wide cyber defense approaches and systems to protect many companies at a time. These would maximize resilience, rather than having each company solely responsible for its own defenses. Think about how cloud computing companies work to provide specific services for many companies, freeing those smaller firms to concentrate on their core lines of business.” Related story: Canadian cyber attack led to new mining industry threat sharing centre Billed by ITAC as a cybersecurity update, the meeting also featured an expert panel, all of who agreed on the need for more threat intel and remediation collaboration but pointed out a number of obstacles. Jack Pagano, regional director of cybersecurity for Cisco Systems Canada, said his firm collaborates with “fierce competitors”, but that collaboration only works if you remove it from the business and focus on the greater good to “help solve the cybersecurity problems we’re all facing.” But, he added, “the minute the business gets their fingers into it if you find a threat it becomes a competitive advantage.” Then “you do a press tour and a whole bunch of marketing around it, which defeats the purpose.” Michelle Mullen, director-general of partnerships and risk mitigation at the federal government’s Canadian Cyber Security Centre, said it’s “really great to talk about collaboration and singing ‘Kumbaya’ when it’s peacetime [meaning there are no cyber attacks] … but when the chips are down and you’re in the middle of an incident we find it’s much harder for anybody to be open and collaborative and sharing of what’s happening to them because of the reputational risk.” “Ask everyone…to learn to be a good victim and collaborate even through the worst times,” she urged. Related story: Threat sharing efforts still fall short, says McAfee Mohammad Qureshi, enterprise chief information officer and chief information security officer for the province of Ontario, noted that the new government has promised to set up a cybersecurity centre of excellence for sharing information. It’s still being worked on. He also noted provincial and territorial governments are increasingly talking to each other: Once a month provincial CISOs network through a teleconference, and meet face to face every six months, sharing threat intelligence and experience on what technology solutions work, or don’t work. Interestingly, no one mentioned the Canadian Cyber Threat Exchange (CCTX), which has created a special pricing model to entice local governments, hospitals and institutions of higher education to join the not-for-profit data exchange and participate in newly set-up private sector discussion forums. Mullen said now that the Canadian Cyber Security Centre — which is just over a year old — has a mandate not just to secure federal IT networks but also to work with the private and public sectors it is increasingly working with the provinces. But she also said companies should be more willing to call the Centre for help if attacked. The Centre won’t tell the media it is working with a victim firm, nor report it to a regulator, she said. In fact, she added, it requires a letter of request for help from a firm, and in return gets a non-disclosure agreement from the Centre. No incident information is shared without permission. However, Mullen also said spreading the word about the Centre’s capabilities and knowledge is “my biggest problem.” She’s looking for industry associations, managed service providers, sectoral entities to reach organizations. On the other hand, spreading the message about cybersecurity within certain federal departments is still a problem. There are “different viewpoints on how serious this problem really is,” Mullen said, “all of that continues to shock us” at the Centre. Ray Boisvert, currently an associate partner at IBM Security and former assistant director of the intelligence directorate of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS), said permission for organizations to collaborate is a matter of corporate leadership. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Public Sector Government of Canada, Ontario government, postmedia, security strategies Experts call for adoption of framework to ensure stability in cyberspace Hashtag Trending - Tech giants dabble with finance, WeWork loses $1.25B, Motorola RAZR comeback About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada