https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-nov-26-2018-dont-give-thanks-to-this-scam-hold-on-to-your-smart-phones/412312
Cyber Security Today: Nov. 26, 2018 — Don't give thanks to this scam, hold on to your smart phones | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today: Nov. 26, 2018 — Don’t give thanks to this scam, hold on to your smart phones Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: November 26th, 2018 Don’t give thanks to this Thanksgiving scam, hold on to your smart phones and a possible data breach at a U.S. healthcare company Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Monday November 26th . To hear the podcast, click on the arrow below: I hope our American listeners had a good Thanksgiving weekend – and hopefully none of you had it spoiled by falling for an email scam. According to security vendor Forcepoint, one scam includes mail with your name and with a header like “Thanksgiving Card” or “Thanksgiving Wishes.” The message is along the lines of, “In this season of thankfulness we are especially grateful to you who have worked so hard to build and create the success of our company.” and attached is supposedly a Thanksgiving Day card. It’s not a card, it’s malware. And its malware that is particularly looking for the next time you log into your bank so it can copy your username and password. It’s another example of why you should read email slowly, be suspicious of any attachments even if they seem to be from friends or family. And hover your mouse over the links that are included in any email or texts to make sure the link is genuine. Many smartphones have fingerprint readers as an extra layer of login security. The idea, of course, is that everyone – except identical twins – has unique fingerprints. Actually, that’s not quite true. Some of us share common parts of fingerprints. This is important because smartphones have small scanners. As a result, they only scan a small portion of a fingerprint. That means they could be vulnerable to being opened with a fake partial fingerprint if it matches the real owners’. It’s a small chance. However, researchers from New York University and Michigan State University now say they can increase the odds with a system that creates what they call DeepMasterPrints using a form of artificial intelligence to make better fake fingerprints. Of course, the attacker first has to get your device. Which is why you’ve got to make sure it’s never out of your sight. A Philadelphia-area healthcare company called Tadigm Health is notifying some 7,000 patients about security incident involving personal information. Due to a website problem in 2017 names, dates of birth, medical information, and health insurance information on patients could have been accessed. Patients are being urged to review their health insurance policy statements and to monitor explanation of benefits forms for services they did not receive. They are also getting two years of free credit monitoring and identity protection. Meanwhile, a Florida dental office is notifying patients to watch for identity theft because it no longer has access to their electronic records. You see a company that managed the database refused to hand it back when its software licence expired. So the dentist’s office can’t say if unauthorized access to the database has or will occur. The two That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts HashTag Trending - Data breach is no longer news; ESPN losing subscribers; weekend saw big sales numbers Mobile mapping market grows on back of crowd-sourced data despite imperfections About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada