https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/a-quick-guide-for-businesses-navigating-canadas-covid-19-economic-response-plan/428748
What financial support can businesses access through Canada's COVID-19 Economic Response Plan? | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Public Sector A quick guide for businesses navigating Canada’s COVID-19 Economic Response Plan Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: March 23rd, 2020 The COVID-19 pandemic has not been an easy time for Canadian businesses as the first major wave of layoffs occurred this week. In hopes of mitigating the negative economic effects, Canada’s Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau, announced the COVID-19 Economic Response Plan March 18, providing relief for both workers and businesses. Right now, there is no designated phone number or government hotline for inquiries related to the available financial support for businesses, but anyone with questions should call one of the many numbers listed on the CRA’s resource page for businesses. Navigating these relief efforts and understanding what your business qualifies for isn’t easy. That’s what this guide is for. Preventing layoffs To prevent lay-offs, the government has proposed a temporary wage subsidy for a period of three months for eligible small employers. It will be equal to 10 per cent of remuneration paid during that period, capping at a maximum subsidy of $1,375 per employee and $25,000 per business. To access this quicker, the government suggests businesses reduce their remittances of income tax withheld on their employees’ remuneration. This will apply to all businesses who are eligible for the small business deduction, non-profit organizations, and charities. Click here to read the eligibility guidelines for the small business deduction. The EI Work Sharing Program has been implemented, which provides EI benefits to workers who have agreed to reduce their usual working hours. It extends the eligibility of such agreements to 76 weeks, eases up on eligibility requirements, and provides a streamlined application process. Tax relief Any income tax payments due between now and September 2020 will be deferred by The Canadian Revenue Agency. This will include tax balances due and installments of a payment plan. No SMEs will be contacted by The Canada Revenue Agency regarding any post-assessment GST/HST or Income Tax audits for the next four weeks. For most businesses, audit interaction with taxpayers and representatives will be temporarily suspended. For small businesses requiring assistance understanding their tax obligations, the Liaison Officer service will now be conducted over the phone and will be providing customized information related to the pandemic and its effects on the economy. Credit access The Business Credit Availability Program (BCAP) allows the Business Development Bank of Canada (BDC) and Export Development Canada (EDC) to aid small and medium-sized businesses with more than $10 billion in financial support. Both of those organizations will work with private-sector lenders to create credit solutions for businesses in sectors that are due to be hit the hardest, like oil and gas, air transportation, and tourism. Available credit for farmers and others in the agri-food sector will also be increased via the Farm Credit Canada. The Bank of Canada has lowered its interest rate to 0.75 per cent. On March 16, the government announced it is launched an Insured Mortgage Purchase Program (IMPP), which will see the government purchase up to $50 billion on insured mortgage pools through the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC). Details of the terms of the purchase operations will be provided to lenders by the CMHC later this week. The Bank of Canada announced it will adjust its market liquidity operations to maintain market functioning and credit availability. It will also be broadening its eligible collateral for its term repo facility to include the full range of collateral eligible under the Standing Liquidity Facility, with an exception of the non-mortgage loan portfolio. And finally, the Bank of Canada announced it will be providing support to the Canada Mortgage Bond market, including purchases of CMBs in the secondary market. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace, Public Sector Canadian government, coronavirus, COVID-19 During a crisis, use and disclosure of personal information may be extended, 'can be very broad' says regulator Can Huawei's AppGallery really replace Google's Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei's Google-less phone About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Insulating your business from COVID-19 impacts TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Telus says it’s providing free high-speed internet to low-income families for 60 days in response to COVID-29 Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada