https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-google-warns-against-edge-startups-losing-staff-work-life-balance-is-dying/427684
Hashtag Trending – Google warns against Edge; startups losing staff; work-life balance is dying | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Google warns against Edge; startups losing staff; work-life balance is dying Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: February 25th, 2020 Google says Microsoft Edge not secure, startups are losing staff, and laptops have killed work-life balance. https://www.phonearena.com/news/Microsoft-Edge-isnt-secure-says-Google_id122491 Microsoft recently decided to switch things up and base its Edge browser on open-source Chromium code. But now Google seems to think it is not secure, and it is trending on Google. Reported by WindowsLatest, when users attempt to download Chrome extensions through the Microsoft Edge browser, they are being met by a warning that advises them that Google Chrome is a more secure option. While they have historically acted similarly to other open-source Chromium browsers, many were alarmed by the harshness of its response to Microsoft, while it has played nicer with others. https://www.linkedin.com/feed/news/tech-startups-are-seeing-a-shakeout-4780148/ Job cuts are nothing new to the world of business, but recently, they are starting to even affect startups, and it is trending on LinkedIn. The biggest number here is the staggering 8,000 job cuts at 30 various startups across the world in the last four months. According to the New York Times, this has been caused by investors beginning to pull back from higher cost ventures with physical assets like scooters or office spaces. This has resulted in the fewest startups managing to raise money in this latest quarter since 2016. https://www.linkedin.com/feed/news/laptops-killed-work-life-balance-4038889/ Recent years have seen a major boom in flexible work and remote work, and the mobility of new technologies like laptops and smartphones have played a large part in that. But now some are starting to see this affecting their work-life balance, and it is trending on LinkedIn. In 2008, for the very first time in history, companies bought more laptops than they did desktops, and that number is sure to have at the very least maintained, if not continued to skew in one direction. This, in combination with more readily available smart phones, has led to working in off hours at home becoming a much more common practise. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Why pizza party security training doesn’t cut it anymore BlackBerry, Microsoft and other heavy hitters drop product announcements at RSA Conference About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada