https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/shopify-joins-facebooks-libra-association/427611
Shopify joins Facebook's Libra Association | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Marketing Shopify joins Facebook’s Libra Association Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: February 21st, 2020 Shopify announced today that it has joined the Facebook-founded Libra Association, becoming the first new member of the organization since it was officially unveiled with 21 other partners last October. As the latest member of the Libra Association, the e-commerce giant will work collectively to build a payment network that supports consumers and merchants while making money easier to access, the company noted in a blog post. Related: Facebook’s Libra confirms its governing council after several major companies withdraw “We are proud to welcome Shopify to the Libra Association. As a multinational commerce platform with over one million businesses in approximately 175 countries, Shopify brings a wealth of knowledge and expertise to the Libra project” wrote Dante Disparte, the Libra Association’s head of policy and communications, on LinkedIn. “Shopify joins an active group of Libra Association members committed to achieving a safe, transparent, and consumer-friendly implementation of a global payment system that breaks down financial barriers for billions of people.” Steven Eliscu, executive vice-president of DMG Blockchain Solutions, had described Libra as the evolution of PayPal, in an interview with IT Business Canada last year. Eliscu said this is evident in how Facebook wants its new cryptocurrency to be easier to use with fewer fees and more accessible for the people without bank accounts. “We think it’s great. People have, for years, been trying to shoehorn Bitcoin as a medium of exchange,” Eliscu told the publication after Facebook revealed the details of its digital currency. “This idea of having an in-network payment system that is tied to fiat – it makes total sense.” With online commerce becoming increasingly borderless, much of the world’s financial infrastructure fails to handle the growing needs and scale of internet commerce. Payments of goods is still not a solved problem everywhere. Shopify said it has joined the Libra Association in an attempt to make all types of commerce better. “This is one step, but not the only step we’ll be taking to be a part of the solution to this global problem,” indicated Disparte. The Libra Association last year said that over 1,500 organizations had shown their interest in joining the Libra project initiative, but only 180 of those organizations were able to meet the preliminary membership criteria established by the association. The official launch of Facebook’s permissioned blockchain digital currency is planned for sometime this year. Marketing cryptocurrency, digital currency, Facebook, libra, Shopify Expert says CRTC's data plan proposals for telcos are 'misguided' Four Canadian privacy watchdogs start investigation of facial recognition service About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Journalist who uncovered Cambridge Analytica data scandal to deliver keynote at True North Festival Facebook cancels conference, IBM pulls out of RSA over coronavirus worries Canadian privacy czar takes Facebook to court over Cambridge Analytica scandal Shopify terminates its chief marketing officer Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada