https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/lyft-is-coming-to-vancouver-by-the-end-of-the-year/420811
Lyft is coming to Vancouver by the end of the year | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Lyft is coming to Vancouver by the end of the year Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: August 12th, 2019 Until now, the ride-hailing company Lyft, Inc. has only operated in Ontario for its Canadian services, but the company says it’s planning to move into the Lower Mainland area of Vancouver before the end of this year, possibly by the fall. Peter Lukomskyj, the first general manager hired by Lyft in B.C., said that while they intend to expand across the rest of the province eventually, the focus is solely on Lower Mainland due to the concern that B.C. is requiring Class 4 commercially-licensed drivers. Lukomsykyj indicated that the added requirement makes it hard for Lyft to meet the need to cover an area sustainably. “We are still quite concerned about the requirement for drivers to have commercial licences as it will negatively impact driver supply and restrict the regions in which we are able to operate,” Lukomskyj said in an email statement to The Toronto Star. Aaron Zifkin, the managing director of Lyft in Canada, was quoted in the Vancouver Sun saying this requirement does not line up with the types of individuals that Lyft usually employs. “Ninety-one per cent of the drivers on our platform drive less than 20 hours a week. These are people like single moms, students in school and people trying to supplement their incomes. As soon as you introduce that Class 4 commercial licence, these people tend not to apply for that type of work,” Zifkin said. Class 4 licence holders include taxi, limousine and ambulance drivers. There is a minimum age restriction of 19 to go along with a required two years of non-learner experience and fewer than four penalty points over the preceding two years. The B.C. Transportation Ministry had set the date ride-hailing companies can apply to enter the market for Sept. 3, and it is expected that rules covering fares and the number of vehicles permitted for each ride-booking service will be released by the end of the summer. Lyft currently operates in the following Ontario cities: Ajax Brampton Hamilton Mississauga Newmarket Oshawa Ottawa Richmond Hill Toronto Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech City of Vancouver, Lyft, Vancouver Cyber Security Today - Wi-Fi advice for travelers, and clumsy companies give away your personal information Federal government launches cybersecurity certification program for SMBs About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Solving common enterprise data challenges takes a collaborative approach Ridesharing services could soon replace personal vehicles, according to Accenture study Lyft to offer discounted rides to get Toronto and Ottawa voters to polls this election 5 Lessons from New Technology Leaders: Jessie Adcock, CTO, City of Vancouver Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada