https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/appdirect-announces-a-partnership-with-google-among-other-announcements-at-appdirect-engage/421903
AppDirect announces a partnership with Google, among other announcements at AppDirect Engage | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Software AppDirect announces a partnership with Google, among other announcements at AppDirect Engage Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: September 18th, 2019 AppDirect Inc., the commerce platform for subscription-based services, announced a partnership with Google to bring its services to the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) and to begin reselling Google Cloud products through its own platform. It was made among other announcements made by the company at its AppDirect Engage event in Montreal this week. “AppDirect operates with three fundamental principles: We’re open, to easily connect, integrate, and deploy any technology; we’re extensible – fully customizable through APIs and microservices; and we’re agnostic to all technology platforms,” said Dan Saks, co-CEO and co-founder of AppDirect. “Through this new offering and partnership with GCP, we are extending our commitment to those values. We’re especially excited to leverage the best-in-class Google Cloud services to delight our customers with new product innovations.” The other two announcements made were regarding direct upgrades to AppDirect’s platform: improved capabilities to allow for a more seamless experience and the addition of AppDirect’s new Add-On Store. The improvements that it made included adding the ability for organizations to sell entire technology packages without the need to handle inventory, heavy integrations, or vendor onboarding. By leveraging AppDirect’s Network Catalog, customers can simply import new digital products and select drop shipping partners for all physical products. Additionally, AppDirect will now be providing support for a large number of its users’ needs including flexible account structures, configurable procurement workflows, CPQ capabilities, dynamic customer segmentation, guest checkout, and others. The just announced Add-On Store will allow access to 40 additional services and products that can complement existing offerings on the platform, like connectors to leading SaaS solutions in CRM, finance and accounting, marketing automation and more. Software AppDirect, Google, Google Cloud Platform Mapping the route to digital transformation Hashtag Trending - Facebook’s new business venture, IT safeguards from Elections Canada, Uber’s new safety system About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone A new Google Cloud Platform region to come to Toronto Google bolsters G Suite Hangouts with enterprise features amidst coronavirus outbreak Google announces startup accelerator in Waterloo and new office in Toronto Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada