https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/microsoft-lends-oneeleven-scaleup-community-a-helping-hand/421494
Microsoft lends OneEleven scaleup community a helping hand | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Leadership Microsoft lends OneEleven scaleup community a helping hand Tom Li @itworldca Published: September 4th, 2019 Microsoft for Startups initiative has a new addition: the Canadian-born OneEleven scaleup community. The Microsoft for Startup program aims to inject $500 million into startups that are struggling to take off. By enrolling in the program, startups would receive training and advice from Microsoft, as well as an abundance of resources and investment. In turn, the startup would become reliant on Microsoft’s services, and provide a potential future channel to co-sell Microsoft’s products. Microsoft will also provide one-on-one meetings with its experts to help entrepreneurs create better business strategies. On April 30, 2019, Microsoft partnered with MaRS team to create a center for over 1,200 startups to collaborate. OneEleven, then, is an ideal place for Microsoft to invest. As a hub for Canadian startups to network, share experiences, and create partnerships, OneEleven provides an opportunity for businesses to establish partnerships. Its members comprise sectors ranging from artificial intelligence to retail, to gaming. Through OneEleven’s partnership with Microsoft, select OneEleven members could receive up to $120,000 Microsoft Azure credits, enterprise-grade technical support, development tools, and sales and marketing training to prepare startups to become a sustainable corporate. “Microsoft is an ideal partner for OneEleven as we help Toronto technology companies grow. They understand the promise of tech is about more than just new tools, it’s about unlocking new opportunities and markets, and supporting new approaches and new leaders,” said Siri Agrell, executive director for OneEleven Toronto, in a statement. “I look forward to working closely with them as we continue to scale our OneEleven member companies and the broader Toronto sector.” Notable OneEleven Corporate members include RBC, Rogers, and Deloitte. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Leadership Microsoft, partner, startups Some Android phones susceptible to settings attack, says security vendor U.S. trade war hits consumers with higher electronics pricing About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Hiring neurodiverse people has given us an edge, says AirGate CEO Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada