https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/city-of-toronto-updates-its-open-data-portal-adds-new-datasets/426280
City of Toronto updates its open data portal, adds new datasetsCity of Toronto updates its open data portal, adds new datasets | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Big Data & Analytics Public Sector City of Toronto updates its open data portal, adds new datasets Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: January 20th, 2020 The City of Toronto recently updated its open data portal with new features and data sets. The newest datasets are “Catalogue Quality Scores”, “Report Request Log – City Council and its Committees”, and “Apartment Building Registration”, and are accompanied by new features such as user interface improvements, civic issue filters, data quality scores, and civic issue tags. Launched in the year 2018, the City of Toronto says the purpose of the portal is for anyone and everyone to be able to use and contribute to the data in any way they see fit. Related: Challenge-based RFPs and open data keys to solving Toronto’s biggest problems, municipal leaders say “The City envisions a future where anyone, anywhere, can improve life in Toronto using open data,” said the City in an email to IT World Canada. “We recognize the potential impact open data has to spur economic development, enhance access to public services, engage Torontonians in government decision making, and innovate our approaches to civic problem-solving.” The datasets fall into five civic issues or categories: mobility, poverty reduction, affordable housing, climate change, and fiscal responsibility. There are currently 61 municipalities with open data portals in Canada, including such major cities as Montreal, Ottawa, Vancouver, Calgary, Edmonton, and Winnipeg, although these all come with their own varying levels of quality and capabilities. Related Download Sponsor: IBM Digital Reinvention in action: What to do and how to make it happen Register Now Big Data & Analytics, Public Sector City of Toronto, Open Data, open data portal Samsung appoints Roh Tae-moon as head of mobile division Hashtag Trending - Google CEO calls for AI regulation; gotta hand it to Amazon; adult site leaks data About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Toronto’s chief information officer Rob Meikle exits after six years Hashtag Trending – Collision in Toronto; Digital Charter; U.S. delays Huawei blacklisting SAS ‘Safe Roads’ big data competition identifies baby boomers at highest risk in Toronto ‘Privacy Day’ explores how to yield benefits from smart cities without privacy pains Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada