https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-sept-2-2019-where-to-find-cyber-security-and-privacy-resources/421195
Cyber Security Today – Where to find cyber security and privacy resources | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – Where to find cyber security and privacy resources Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: September 2nd, 2019 Where to find cyber security and privacy resources online Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Monday September 2nd. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanada.com. Today’s the Labour Day holiday in Canada and the U.S. If you’ve tuned in, thanks for listening. I’ll try to keep today’s show brief so you can enjoy the day. Cyber security and privacy are daunting topics. There’s lots for ordinary consumers to think about — how to chose a secure password, how to secure a laptop, smartphone or tablet, how to use social media safely … So here’s a couple of websites where you can at least start to find answers. There are links to each site in the text version of this podcast at ITWorldCanada.com —The Canadian Centre for Cyber Security is the federal government’s new merged site with advice for consumers and businesses. Consumers should search for a site called Get Cyber Safe. —The Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada has advice on protecting privacy and personal information. –The U.S. Department of Homeland Security hosts the new Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency site, also known as the CISA. Consumers should look for a section called Tips. —The U.S. Federal Trade Commission has a Consumer Information page with answers to questions about online security, protecting kids online and identity theft. –The Electronic Frontier Foundation has a Surveillance Self-Defence page with a number of guides including how to pick a safe password, and how to enable two-factor authentication. —Stay Safe Online is an effort by big companies like Microsoft, Google and credit card companies which stocks advice for consumers and small businesses. —Britain’s National Cyber Security Centre has a page with top tips for staying safe online. These are just a few of the resources online. And of course, subscribing to this podcast is another. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these sites can be found in the text version of today’s podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Study says businesses stand to lose 20% of sales revenue forever after a hack Hashtag Trending - An unlikely team-up, cool office perks, Jack gets hacked About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada