https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/over-a-quarter-of-firms-suffered-irreparable-data-loss-vendor-study/416231
Over a quarter of firms suffered irreparable data loss: Vendor study | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Privacy & Security Over a quarter of firms suffered irreparable data loss: Vendor study Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: March 22nd, 2019 A lot of companies around the world are having trouble protecting their data, if a vendor-sponsored survey of 2,200 IT decision makers in 18 countries a vendor is accurate. According to the Global Data Protection Index survey released Thursday by Dell EMC, 27 per cent of respondents said their firms had suffered “irreparable data loss” in the previous 12 months. By comparison in the last survey two years ago only 14 per cent of respondents said they had lost data. Of the 100 Canadians questioned this time around 16 per cent said their firm had suffered irreparable data loss. “If you don’t have the right investment in the right data protection systems we’ve seen a big increase in the inability to recover data from current data protection methods or products,” Ruya Atac-Barrett, Dell EMC’s vice-president of marketing for data protection products, said in an interview. “This is a fast-growing space with a lot of new entrants with exciting stories but those stories sometimes don’t correlate with robust solutions that don’t ensure data availability.” “If you are protected against unplanned system downtime or outage or attacks — even ransomware — with robust data protection strategy there should be no reason why you are irreparably damaged.” Graphic from Dell Companies surveyed had at least 250 employees. Two hundred respondents answered questions in the U.S., the U.K., France and Germany; while 100 respondents replied in each of Canada, Mexico, Brazil, South Africa, UAE, Italy, Switzerland, Netherlands, Australia, Japan, China, South Korea, India and Singapore. Arguably, to perhaps no one’s surprise, 76 per cent of all respondents (72 per cent of Canadians surveyed) said they had experienced a data disruption in the previous 12 months. The reasons included irreparable data loss, but the number one reason was unplanned downtime (41 per cent), followed by ransomware (28 per cent). Drilling deeper the top two biggest reasons for disruptions were hardware (36 per cent) and software (35 per cent) failures. They were followed by data corruption (30 per cent), external data breach (28 per cent), loss of power (27 per cent) and accidental user error (23 per cent). Other reasons listed after that included loss of backup power, a mistake by a service/cloud provider and employee sabotage. Perhaps for these reasons only 33 per cent of all respondents were very confident their organization could fully recover from a disruption to meet business obligations. Only 37 per cent were very confident their organization is meeting its backup and recovery service level obligations. Only 35 per cent were very confident their data protection infrastructure meets regulatory compliance. Related Articles GDPR 40 days later: How to appoint a data protection officer and what they need to do Forty days after the E.U.'s Global Data Protection Regulation came into effect, there are 60 data protection officers to be... July 4th, 2018 Brian Jackson @brianjjackson You don’t have to sacrifice privacy for security, says former Ontario privacy commissioner Ann Cavoukian spent more than 15 years as Ontario’s Information and Privacy Commissioner between 1997 and 2014, but her new... February 7th, 2018 Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Only 35 per cent said they were very confident their organization could reliably recover all business-critical data if hit with a destructive cyber attack. The majority (88%) of the 100 Canadian respondents said they face at least one challenge in relation to data protection. The top three challenges Canadian business face include: The lack of data protection solutions for emerging technologies (ranked 2nd globally) Ensuring compliancy with regulations like GDPR (ranked 3rd globally) Ballooning costs of storing and managing backup copies due to rapid data growth ranked first at (ranked 1stglobally). In most cases, the report concludes, organizations need to improve their data protection infrastructure – the majority of respondents highlight at least one area that could be improved or that they do not have confidence in. To see more about the findings click here Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Privacy & Security Data Protection, Dell, security strategies IBM and Boehringer Ingelheim partner on blockchain for clinical trials Cyber Security Today: Fake name scams, money for finding bugs and police hit by ransomware About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Three tips to keep your data safe when working from home Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada