https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/azure-shows-no-sign-of-slowing-down-according-to-microsofts-q1-2020-earnings-call/423247
Azure shows no sign of slowing down, according to Microsoft's Q1 2020 earnings call | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Azure shows no sign of slowing down, according to Microsoft’s Q1 2020 earnings call Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: October 24th, 2019 Following a strong start to the 2020 fiscal year that saw US$33 billion in revenue, Microsoft’s Azure continued to experience strong growth despite concerns from experts that this growth would taper off. Checking in at a year-over-year growth rate of 64 per cent, Azure’s performance was boosted by partnerships like the one announced this week between Microsoft and SAP SE to make Azure the preferred destination for all SAP customers, as well as preceding partnerships with VMware and Oracle to bring them into the Azure ecosystem. “We’re extending beyond the cloud to the edge, enabling customers to get real-time insights where data is generated while ensuring security and privacy,” said Microsoft’s chief executive officer, Satya Nadella, in an earnings call. “And we’re seeing traction in every industry from Azure Sphere, securely connecting Starbucks coffee machines to Azure Stack, enabling scenarios from smart factories and modern compliant banking to mobile health care in remote areas.” With a US$11 billion revenue, Microsoft’s Intelligent Cloud platform grew by 19 per cent year-over-year and now ranks as one of Microsoft’s largest product lines. Its commercial business saw revenue of US$11 billion with a year-over-year growth rate of 14 per cent; powered by a 31 per cent growth rate from Office 365 Commercial revenue. The Office 365 Consumer revenue only rose mid-single digits, but saw LinkedIn revenue rise 25 per cent. Ryan Duguid, chief of evangelism and advanced technology at Nintex – a Microsoft partner – said he foresees this growth to continue throughout the 2020 fiscal year. “After an outstanding 2019 that saw Microsoft push through and sustain its position in the trillion-dollar club, the company’s initial 2020 earnings suggest that Microsoft is moving from strength to strength,” said Duguid in an email statement after the earnings call. “Not only is the company continuing to grow market share through Azure, but there seems to be a newfound energy in the competition with Salesforce as a platform of choice for business applications, spearheaded by Dynamics, LinkedIn and the Power Platform. Combined with an impressive line-up of new devices showcased in the recent Surface event, it’s clear that this is going to be a big year for the tech titan.” Our thanks to the investment research platform Seeking Alpha for the transcriptions from Microsoft’s Q1 earnings call. Cloud azure, Microsoft, Oracle, SAP, VMWare Optiv Canada and SailPoint awarded SLSA by federal government ESET hunts down the developer and operator of Android adware affecting 8 million users About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Fixing ‘unmanageable’ Phoenix system will take roughly a year, says SAP Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada