https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-apple-to-host-a-special-event-will-lyft-take-over-uber-in-its-ipo-google-and-mastercard-partner-to-track-offline-purchases/408567
Hashtag Trending – Apple to host a special event; Will Lyft take over Uber in its IPO?; Google and Mastercard partner to track offline purchases | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Apple to host a special event; Will Lyft take over Uber in its IPO?; Google and Mastercard partner to track offline purchases Shruti Shekar @shruti_shekar Published: September 3rd, 2018 First up, trending on LinkedIn, rumour has it that Apple is going to be hosting a special event on Sept. 12 at its main campus in San Francisco. Some early predictions point to the tech giant unveiling three new iPhones including an iPhone X Plus with a 6.5-inch screen. CNET reports it’s possible that the Apple Watch series 4 will be unveiled. Other predictions include a new MacBook Air, Mac Mini, and upgraded iPads. The event on the 12th will begin at 10 a.m. PT. Also trending on LinkedIn is news of ride-hailing company Lyft looking to surpass Uber by jumping ahead and making an initial public offering next year. According to a Bloomberg article, Lyft has already hired an IPO adviser to help the company prepare itself for a listing next year in March or April. Experts say the move from Lyft could upstage its larger rival and gain IPO bankers that can’t work on Uber’s listing because of a conflict of interest. But, experts also warn Lyft could lose out on other investors waiting on Uber. Finally trending on Flipboard is news that Google and Mastercard have signed a secret deal so that Google can track retail sales using Mastercard. Google advertisers have had access for the past year to a new tool that tracks whether ads have led to a sale at a physical store in the U.S, according to reporting from Bloomberg. It turns out Google and Mastercard had been working together to broker this partnership for four years, allowing Google to analyze how purchases are made so it can strengthen its business against other tech giants like Amazon. As of this recording, Google and Mastercard have remained silent on the partnership. Careers Apple, Google, MasterCard Cyber Security Today: Restaurants Canada offers security assessments; Microsoft’s SoC of the future; Medical devices at risk Executive compromise attacks don't always have malicious links: Report About Shruti Shekar Shruti Shekar is a video producer and reporter for IT World Canada. She was formerly a political reporter at The Hill Times and was based in Ottawa. Her beats included political culture, lobbying, telecom and technology, and the diplomatic community. She was also was the editor of The Lobby Monitor, and a reporter at The Wire Report; two trade publications that are part of The Hill Times. She received a MA in journalism from Western University and a double BA honours in communication studies and human rights from Carleton University. She was born in India, grew up mostly in Singapore and currently resides in Canada. Follow Follow @shruti_shekar on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone Is my iPhone snooping on my conversations? Apple’s new MacBook Air and iPad Pro bring surprsing upgrades Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada