https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cgi-awarded-more-than-21m-in-contracts-from-ontario-based-credit-unions/420230
CGI awarded more than $21M in contracts from Ontario-based credit unions | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Managed Services & Outsourcing CGI awarded more than $24M in contracts from Canadian credit unions Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: July 23rd, 2019 CGI Inc. – one of Canada’s oldest and largest IT services firm – announced today that it was awarded over $24 million CAD in contracts from credit unions in Canada. These credit unions, which include a group of credit unions in Ontario and three credit unions in British Columbia, have contracted the services of CGI to renew and extend their managed banking services. “In our comprehensive formal review of banking system options available in the market today, our clear choice was CGI and the RFS360 banking solution,” said Allison Kasper, senior vice-president of business and social impact for Copperfin Credit Union, and chair of the CUSA board. “CGI is a trusted partner and we rely on its experience and expertise to help strengthen and grow our businesses.” Founded in 1976, CGI has an extensive history with credit unions in Canada. CGI’s Services to Credit Unions team is partnered with more than 100 credit unions, banks, and trusts which support approximately two million end customers. “This multi-year extension allows them to focus on the transformational changes underway in support of their business plans and their members,” said Richard Pickering, vice-president of services to credit unions at CGI. CGI’s ‘Bank in a Box’ SaaS solution, RFS360, allows for improved functionality to help automate client’s end-to-end banking processes. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos Your ERP System Is Leaking How to Better Use a Time and Labour Data Collection System to Plug Holes Caused by Fraud and Waste. Read More Managed Services & Outsourcing banking, CGI Huawei Canada announces plans to bring broadband to more than 70 remote communities Hashtag Trending - Google settles lawsuit; Canadian carrier pricing worst in the world; Google pushes for MVNO changes About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Mitacs placing 400 interns with ENCQOR 5G network projects Loans by phone: revolutionizing digital loan applications Sponsored By: Epson Gearing the banking experience to the customer of tomorrow Hashtag Trending – Paypal going after traditional banks, Facebook’s continued problems, China’s dystopian ranking system Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada