https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/huawei-moves-u-s-research-centre-to-canada/424825
Huawei moves U.S. research centre to Canada, potentially eyeing Montreal | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Careers Huawei moves U.S. research centre to Canada Tom Li @itworldca Published: December 5th, 2019 Huawei is moving its research efforts up north. The company’s founder confirmed earlier this week that the telecommunication company will be moving its U.S. research centre to Canada in an interview with the Globe and Mail. “Because of the sanctions, we are not allowed to communicate with our employees in America. No phone calls. No e-mails. No contacts,” said Ren in the interview. “Huawei’s development has been blocked in America, and therefore we are moving our business to Canada.” Ren said Canada will be the company’s main focus moving forward. “If we give up on one country after another because of one incident, then we won’t have any business in the world,” Ren stressed. Huawei did not detail its migration plan or where it’s looking to place the new research facility. Chris Pereira, Huawei’s director of public affairs, hinted that Montreal may be a good bet to draw Canadian talent. “Canada is facing an enormous opportunity this year,” wrote Pereira in an email to IT World Canada. “By continuing its long-standing tradition of being open and inclusive, Canada will continue to attract the best talent, investment, and jobs from around the world, especially in tech fields such as artificial intelligence. Places such as Montreal will definitely benefit from Canada’s strengths in artificial intelligence.” Montreal currently hosts major AI research centres including the Samsung AI research centre, the Montreal AI Ethics Institute, and the newly-opened Mila centre. Huawei has also been silent on how it plans to manage the staff in its current American research centre. In July, Reuters reported that it trimmed 600 employees from its subsidiary research branch Futurewei. Artificial Intelligence, Careers AI, AI Research, Huawei, Huawei Canada There’s a fast lane to the future in digital health care Hashtag Trending - BMO slashes jobs, Evil Corp., TikTok suppresses content About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Huawei Watch GT 2 ups the ante in functionality Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone The bad guys are arming themselves with AI, but so are we, says Darktrace’s country manager for Canada Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada