https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/a-lesson-in-human-capital-management/410571
A lesson in Human Capital Management | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Infrastructure A lesson in Human Capital Management Suzanne Robicheau @itworldca Published: October 22nd, 2018 With 45,000 employees and 110 hotels in 47 countries, Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts faced the challenge of attracting and retaining the top talent. More than 50 years as a leader in luxury travel showed them the strong correlation between employee satisfaction and guest satisfaction. A tradition of innovation positioned them to see the potential in cloud-based tools and systems for cultivating internal champions and ensuring a globally consistent process. An early adopter of cloud solutions, Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts uses technology to minimize the complexities of workforce management. A single system aggregates the information of employees around the world, navigating seamlessly through a labyrinth of countries, cultures, and languages. Mobile solutions allow anywhere/anytime access to human capital management (HCM) software on any device. Data analytics track the skills of staff and their interest in relocating. Predictive analytics, AI, and machine learning empower those responsible for HCM. Using analytics to gain employee insights is no flash in the pan. According to Gartner’s 2018 Magic Quadrant for Cloud HCM Suites for Midmarket and Large Enterprises, by 2020, 30% of global midmarket and large enterprises will have invested in a cloud-deployed HCM suite for administrative HR and talent management. Register to attend: “Using the Cloud to Get the Best from Your Employees – The Four Seasons Story” As digital transformation continues to revolutionize the HCM market, Four Seasons and other enterprise leaders are pioneering creative new ways to promote teamwork, extend workplace flexibility, foster commitment, and engage a mobile-savvy, millennial workforce. Technology allows them to devote more time to what really counts: recognizing the potential in their people and providing them with a platform for growth. Are you looking for ways to identify and invest in your top employees? Would you like to learn how a hospitality leader set the standard for managing an increasingly global workforce? Do you enjoy a good story? On Wednesday, Nov 28, 2018, join host Helen Polatajko, former CIO of CIBC Mellon, and special guests Marco Trecroce, Four Seasons CIO, and Dan Wesley, Workday CTO, for Using the Cloud to Get the Best from Your Employees – The Four Seasons Story – a deep exploration of the way Four Seasons used data analytics to revolutionize human resource management. The session will also involve discussions around: Capitalizing on the millenial mindest Growing internal champions Building and developing effective teams by finding the right talent Leveraging data analytics to evaluate talent and plan for the future Preparing your organization for emerging markets Register now for Using the Cloud to Get the Best from Your Employees – The Four Seasons Story Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Infrastructure Four Seasons, HCM, Human Capital Management Hashtag Trending: A repair tech says Apple, U.S. customs seized goods; Spotify reinventing soundtracks; Tim Cook calls Bloomberg to retract story Cyber Security Today: Oct. 22, 2018 -- Consumers tolerate breaches, EU may get tougher on hacking and a holiday shopping warning About Suzanne Robicheau Suzanne Robicheau is a communications specialist based in Wolfville, Nova Scotia, where working remotely continues to fuel her passion for new mobile technologies -- especially on snowy days. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Workforce data collection risks damaging employee trust: Accenture survey SAP and IBM are just the ticket for the Toronto Transit Commission Embracing technology has iconic hospitality brand facing the future Workday focuses on machine learning to analyze business skills and trends Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada