https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-vancouver-opens-door-to-ride-hailing-100000-ai-generated-headshots-hit-the-market-google-invests-record-amount-in-renewable-energy/422064
Hashtag Trending – Vancouver opens door to ride-hailing; 100,000 AI-generated headshots hit the market; Google invests record amount in renewable energy | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Vancouver opens door to ride-hailing; 100,000 AI-generated headshots hit the market; Google invests record amount in renewable energy Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: September 23rd, 2019 Vancouver finally allows ride-hailing in the city; 100,000 AI-generated headshots have hit the market for free; Google invests record-breaking amount into renewable energy After months of speculation, Vancouver is finally opening its doors to ride-hailing apps like Uber and Lyft, and it is trending on LinkedIn. Despite Lyft saying it would be in the city by the fall, nothing was finalized and it all hinged on the City of Vancouver actually opening up applications to join the cities transportation eco-system. That day finally came late last week as they announced they would be accepting applications. Taxi drivers in the city have already hit back with a petition; but despite this, the city hopes to see its first ride before the end of the year. A tech startup is putting the stock photo industry on alert, as it released a database of 100,000 AI-generated head shots of entirely fake people, all free of charge, and it is trending on Reddit. The tool, dubbed simply Generated Photos, was created by Icons8, a designer marketplace, and the ultimate goal is to create a seemingly infinite database of fake headshots that can be used entirely royalty-free. And last up, we have another story trending on Reddit. In advance of Friday’s Climate Strike, Google dedicated a record-breaking amount of money to renewable energy sources. The announcement outlines that the company will be spending 2 billion USD to create the infrastructure for renewable energy in the US, South America, and Europe. This contract includes wind and solar, as well as 18 new energy deals, and will increase the company’s renewable energy portfolio by 40 percent. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts CIRA calls for federal parties to support an open Canadian Internet Cyber Security Today - Trust still needed in security, cheap phones may mean cheap privacy, dump these Android apps About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada