https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-amazon-hits-1-trillion-mercedes-benz-takes-on-tesla-canadian-university-creates-roll-up-tablet/408605
Hashtag Trending – Amazon hits $1 trillion; Mercedes-Benz takes on Tesla; Canadian university creates roll-up tablet | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Leadership Mobility Wireless & IoT Hashtag Trending – Amazon hits $1 trillion; Mercedes-Benz takes on Tesla; Canadian university creates roll-up tablet Meagan Simpson @megesimpson Published: September 5th, 2018 Amazon hits the $1 trillion mark, Mercedes-Benz reveals its first all-electric car and Queen’s University creates a roll-up tablet. It’s all the tech news that’s popular right now. Welcome to Hashtag Trending! It’s Wednesday, September 5th, and I’m your host Meagan Simpson. First up, from LinkedIn: Amazon has caught up to Apple, reaching the $1 trillion mark, at least for a short time anyway. Yesterday Amazon’s stock surpassed the $1 trillion valuation but slipped below the symbolic mark not soon after. Reaching this milestone makes the e-commerce giant the second ever American company to be worth $1 trillion after Apple which hit the mark last month. According to the Wall Street Journal, Amazon’s stock has surged 75 per cent this year, adding more than $435 billion to the company’s market value. Its success is attributed to Amazon Web Services which offers hosting and cloud computing as well as its investments in industries like grocery delivery with Whole Foods and healthcare. Even though it has since fallen below the trillion dollar mark, analysts expect it to join the exclusive trillion dollar club within the next few days. Next up from LinkedIn: Mercedes-Benz is taking on Tesla with the introduction of its first all-electric car. The luxury car maker announced the EQC in Stockholm on Tuesday. It’s an all all-wheel drive SUV with a range up to 500km. The carmaker says the 80kWh battery pack for the vehicle will be able to charge from 10 per cent to 80 per cent in just 40 minutes. Mercedes-Benz joins BMW, Audi and Porsche, challenging Tesla in the luxury car market. According to an article from the Verge, Mercedes-Benz has put billions of dollars towards making electric cars and this SUV is just the first in an entire line of EQ brand all-electric cars. The German automaker already makes hybrid and plug-in hybrid versions of EQ sedans and SUVs. The EQC, electric car will go into production in 2019 and will be available in the U.S. and Canadian markets by 2020. Finally from Google Trends: Flexible tablet screens are not a thing of the future, Queen’s University in Kingston has unveiled the first ever roll-up tablet. The touch-screen tablet is shaped like a scroll and has a flexible screen that can roll up. It was created by researchers from the university’s Human Media Lab and is dubbed the MagicScroll. The best way to describe it is tech meets ancient writing scroll. Its has a 7.5-inch 2K resolution flexible screen display that rolls around a 3D-printed cylinder. And apparently the cylinder is what contains the inner-workings of the device. The so called tablet can be used while rolled up or extended and can be used as a contacts rolodex, smartphone or for notifications. And while you won’t see it in market just yet, the director of the Canadian university lab says in a press release they hope the project proves that screens don’t have to be flat. The lab hopes to create future projects similar to the MagicScroll that could fit screens on something the size of a pen or even a coffee cup. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership, Mobility, Wireless & IoT Amazon, hashtag trending, Human Media Lab, MagicScroll, Mercedes, podcasts, Queen's University, roll-up tablet, Tesla I will never understand how you heathens survive without physical keyboards Cyber Security Today: Child monitoring software, another software code blunder About Meagan Simpson Meagan Simpson is a Jr. staff writer for IT World Canada. A graduate of Carleton University’s journalism program, she loves sports, travelling, reading and photography, and when not covering tech news she can be found cuddled up on the couch with her cat and a good book. Follow Follow @megesimpson on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada