https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/bigger-and-better-in-tacs-6th-national-virtual-career-expo/418402
Bigger and better: In-TAC's 6th National Virtual Career Expo | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Bigger and better: In-TAC’s 6th National Virtual Career Expo Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: June 7th, 2019 Canada’s largest online career fair is more popular than ever. Over 9,000 job-seekers registered for the sixth semi-annual In-TAC National Virtual Career Expo (VCE6), which was held on April 16th and 17th. That’s 2,000 more than the last Expo held last October. The Virtual Career Expo gives employers access to a top-notch talent pool beyond their local reach and internationally. The platform allows them to converse with applicants no matter where they are, and/or to conduct video interviews right away when necessary. At VCE6, sponsored by TechInsights and Business Development Bank of Canada, there were 11,620 applications for over 1,800 jobs in 150 locations spanning from coast to coast. Event organizers report that the event attracted over 50 employers and partners, many of which are national and multinational, including IBM, Air Canada, Amazon, McCain, AECON, and the top five banks in Canada. In addition, the door was kept open for smaller companies like ElastaLink, which ended up inviting 10 event attendees for an interview. The 2019 In-TAC National Virtual Career Expo by the numbers: 47 – booths at the event 61.3 – percentage of clients registered from Canada 128 – number of countries from which people logged into the event 135 – reps that logged into the event 1,804 – jobs up for grabs 11,620 – job applications 41,543* – booth visits *average of almost 900 per booth The final number tells of an exceptionally busy main event. At the same time, In-TAC had two featured forums attracting about 4,000 participants — the “Discover Canada” showcasing nine Canadian cities and the “Career Corner” featuring sector-specific opportunities and alternative career pathways. By all measures, the sixth In-TAC National Virtual Career Expo was a great success. Fifty per cent of booths have already booked for the next Expo in October. About In-TAC In-TAC matches international talent with local businesses — helping small- and medium-sized businesses fill their expertise gaps, and helping internationally educated professionals quickly find jobs in their field of expertise. Find out more about In-TAC. Careers Career Expo, In-TAC, job fair, jobs, VCE6 Keylogger, vulnerable server led to Cathay Pacific Airlines breach, says report Success at digital transformation? Make mistakes and think small. About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Amazon announces new fulfillment centre, 600 jobs near Edmonton Hashtag Trending – Robots create jobs; Apple losing customers; Shopify and AR Hashtag Trending – Google releases ‘Speed Update’; Amazon opens Ottawa fulfillment centre; Musk’s ‘impractical’ contribution to the Thai soccer team rescue Canadian employers cautiously optimistic for 2017 despite nagging problems Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada