https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ontario-medical-laboratory-adopts-verified-me-network/425203
Ontario medical laboratory adopts Verified.Me network | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Software Wireless & IoT Ontario medical laboratory adopts Verified.Me network Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: December 16th, 2019 SecureKey Technologies announced Dec. 12 that medical laboratory services company Dynacare has become a part of its blockchain-based digital identity network, Verified.Me. SecureKey, a leading identity and authentication provider that simplifies consumer access to online services and applications, says that Dynacare’s participation will allow patients of Dynacare Plus in Ontario to verify their identity via the Verified.Me service securely and without having to visit a Dynacare location in-person. This replaces the former identity verification process that required the use of a PIN code received during a visit to a Dynacare clinic. Canadians need to prioritize taking ownership and managing their health, but they often avoid it because of the current complex and confusing process of obtaining health information, SecureKey said in a press release. Adoption of the Verified.Me network by Dynacare is aimed at addressing this problem. Dynacare Plus, an online and mobile service that patients can use to manage their health remotely, will now offer users Verified.Me as a new option at the time of registration to help them verify their identity. Patients who use Verified.Me will also be able to access as well as review their laboratory test results, store medication, vaccination and appointment records among other features. In addition, the service will allow them to access various health and wellness resources, as well as synchronize their personal health information with Apple Health and Google Fit. “In many cases, accessing health information is limited to in-person physician visits that often result in lengthy wait times. By welcoming Dynacare into the Verified.Me network, we are excited to provide a more convenient and secure access to health information for patients across Ontario and to equip Canadians with the necessary tools to take charge of their health,” said Greg Wolfond, founder and chief executive officer of SecureKey Technologies. “Joining Verified.Me will allow our Dynacare Plus patients easier and more convenient access to our platform,” said Arun Thomas, Vice President, information technology and chief information officer, Dynacare. Verified.Me service is now available for Dynacare Plus patients in a user-friendly, browser-based version at www.DynacarePlus.com and an app version is also available for download. Verified.Me was designed by Toronto-based SecureKey Technologies Inc. earlier this year. Supported by the top banks in Canada, this blockchain-based digital identity network makes use of a trusted connection with existing personal identification details, such as a financial institution, to help verify identities, create accounts and access online services from other trusted organizations. The service reduces unnecessary oversharing of personal information by providing consumers the choice of when and with whom their information is shared. It is a more secure alternative to traditional digital identification methods and allows consumers to quickly and safely engage with the online services of their choice. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Software, Wireless & IoT Blockchain, digital identity, financial institutions, Healthcare data, healthcare IT, postmedia, SecureKey Fake government procurement websites, protect Ring surveillance cameras, a production company hacked and more Cisco launches Silicon One, enters component biz About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada