https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cisco-primes-the-network-for-digital-transformation/384869
Cisco primes the network for digital transformation | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cisco CEO Chuck Robbins Digital Transformation Infrastructure Cisco primes the network for digital transformation Ryan Patrick @ryan1patrick Published: July 11th, 2016 LAS VEGAS — Some time ago, Cisco products were closed systems, said customer Kaushik Saha, a digital architect at India-based IT services firm Wipro. That’s not the case anymore — and it’s a good thing, he quickly added. Indeed. At its Cisco Live event in Las Vegas, Cisco Systems Inc. expounded on its current approach to networking, one that takes into account the IT needs of the digital transformation era. According to CEO Chuck Robbins during his opening keynote, customers are embracing mobility, cloud, analytics and the Internet of Things (IoT) as they look to digitize business operations. Simply put, the “digital-ready” network has to keep up, according to Robbins. Building off its Digital Network Architecture (DNA) approach it announced this past March, Robbin noted that the technology helps organizations as they make the shift from hardware-centric to software-driven, from manual to automated, and from closed to programmable. And as the network evolves, so too should the cybersecurity approach, according to the company; Cisco on Monday unveiled new services and cloud-based security solutions built with Cisco’s threat-centric security architecture. According to the company, the tools focus on the network to the endpoint to the cloud, an approach that enables enterprises to more quickly identify threats and remediate them in less than 17 hours – much faster than the industry standard of 100 days. Specifically, Cisco announced the following: Cisco Umbrella Roaming: A centralized, cloud-delivered protection approach that aims to to remove off-network blind spots, guarding roaming employees wherever they work. With Umbrella Roaming, now embedded as a module with Cisco’s AnyConnect VPN solution, organizations can add a new layer of off-network protection that blocks connections to malicious sites without needing to deploy another agent. Cisco Umbrella Branch: This cloud-delivered solution gives businesses more control over guest Wi-Fi use with easy content filtering. With Umbrella Branch, businesses can simply upgrade Integrated Services Routers (ISR) for simple, fast and comprehensive security at branch locations. Cisco Defense Orchestrator: This cloud-based management application enables users to easily and effectively manage a large security infrastructure and policies in distributed locations across thousands of devices through a simple cloud-based console. It cuts through complexity to manage security policies across Cisco security products from ASA and ASAv firewalls to Cisco Firepower next- generation firewalls and ASA with FirePOWERTM Services featuring Firepower Threat Defense, and OpenDNS. Cisco Meraki MX Security Appliances with Advanced Malware Protection (AMP) and Threat Grid : This cloud-managed unified threat management (UTM) solution simplifies advanced threat protection for the distributed enterprise, providing branch offices with malware protection that checks files against its cloud database to identify malicious content, blocking the files before users download them. Stealthwatch Learning Networks License: This component enables the Cisco ISR to act as a security sensor and enforcer for branch threat protection. It allows businesses to detect and track anomalies in network traffic, analyze suspicious network activity, and identify malicious traffic. Robbins offered that in addition to Cisco partnerships and acquisitions, the focus on cloud-based IT security at the network layer will be important moving forward. As a company, Cisco is focused on moving “fast, and then even faster than that” when it comes to digital transformation and the network, Robbins said. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Infrastructure Chuck Robbins, Cisco, Cisco Live 4G networks pose mobility management challenges for the enterprise CenturyLink unveils service that adds marketing analytics to venue-based Wi-Fi About Ryan Patrick Seasoned technology reporter, editor and senior content producer. Follow Follow @ryan1patrick on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cisco commits $225 million to COVID-19 response Cisco leadership undergoes another shuffle involving Amy Chang and David Goeckeler In response to COVID-19, Cisco is handing out free 90-day Webex business licenses RSA Conference: Democratize security, says Cisco official, and McAfee urges work on quantum-resistant solutions Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada