https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/banks-challenge-canadian-post-secondary-students-to-create-cyber-solutions/425937
Banks challenge Canadian post-secondary students to create cyber solutions | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Banks challenge Canadian post-secondary students to create cyber solutions Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: January 13th, 2020 Five of the country’s biggest banks are offering cash prizes to post-secondary students and recent graduates for creating possible solutions to improve the cyber security responses of financial institutions. The Canadian Bankers Association today announced the CBA Cyber Security Challenge for creating solutions for strengthening mobile app security, network security and web security. The winner in each category will receive $2,000, the second-place winner will get $500 plus a virtual reality console and headset, while the third-place winner will get a $500 gift card. Arguably one of the biggest benefits of the competition, however, will for finalists to meet IT officials from the sponsoring banks: RBC, CIBC, BMO, Scotiabank and TD Bank. Canadian banks are among the country’s biggest employers of IT graduates. Those eligible are current students from universities and colleges in Canada and those who have graduated within the last two years. However, residents of Quebec aren’t eligible. In an email, Mathieu Labrèche, the CBA’s director of media strategy explained the association didn’t want to conflict with an innovation competition for students and startups announced late last year by Montreal-based National Bank. Applications for the CBA contest don’t need to have degrees in computer science. Organizers hope this will result in a diverse number of participants. “The CBA Cyber Security Challenge will harness the burgeoning expertise of Canada’s future workforce across diverse perspectives and skillsets,” association president Neil Parmenter said in a statement. “We’re excited to see what bold ideas students will bring to the banking industry.” The CBA represents more than 60 domestic and foreign banks. Applications by individuals or teams including a five slide proposal have to be submitted by March 1. They will be winnowed down to a list of 50 by March 15th. That group will hone their proposals and have until April 10th to make more detailed 10-slide submissions. A group of 30 finalists will be selected by April 24th, who will then prototype and pitch their solutions in Toronto on May 16 and 17. Judges will consider submissions based on these criteria: Innovation: How innovative is the solution in its use of new or existing technology to solve the problem described in the brief? Are there other solutions available and if so, how does this differentiate from them? Relevancy: How well does the deliverable respond to the specific need set out in the competition brief? Feasibility: How feasible is the solution to put into practice? Does the solution make sense financially? Will the solution be sustainable over the long term? Impact: What is the scale of potential social impact? How broad is the impact? How many people will the solution reach? How significant is the impact? Clarity: How well do presenters articulate their solution and the potential impact it will have on society? Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security financial industry, postmedia, security strategies Cyber Security Today - Millions of files on Americans found open on Internet, and how to avoid juice-jacking Vulnerabilities found in Citrix and Pulse Secure products About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada