https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/the-bad-guys-are-arming-themselves-with-ai-but-so-are-we-says-darktraces-country-manager-for-canada/427925
The bad guys are arming themselves with AI, and we're ready for them, says Darktrace | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Illustration by z_wei | Getty Images Artificial Intelligence Emerging Tech Leadership Privacy & Security The bad guys are arming themselves with AI, but so are we, says Darktrace’s country manager for Canada Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: March 12th, 2020 David Masson is confident that the use of sophisticated artificial intelligence by hackers is not a matter of if, but a matter of when. The director of enterprise security for security firm Darktrace, who has been involved in cybersecurity since the Cold War, is adamant that the same algorithms that helped Darktrace develop intelligent defence capabilities that mimic the human immune system will be used by hackers to deliver massive blows to enterprises and public infrastructure. “Now, we as a company use AI to protect organizations and networks. But what we have to consider is that the bad guys, the threat actors, they too, are going to start using artificial intelligence,” said Masson, who is also the company’s director of enterprise security. “And this has major implications for the cybersecurity industry right around the world and for all of us. But it’s once the threat actors start using AI…they’re going to be able to carry out very complicated and sophisticated attacks at machine speed, and human beings will not be able to counter them themselves. Human beings will need to use AI to fight AI now.” David Masson, country manager for Darktrace in Canada. It’s this thought process that has helped Darktrace elevate itself to new heights in Canada. The company entered the country in 2016, with an office in Toronto, and now has offices in Vancouver and Ottawa as well. It currently stands at an employee base of 30 in Canada, and a client base of 250, having attracted 110 clients in the last year alone. The cybersecurity firm launched out of the University of Cambridge in 2013, and today has a second headquarters in San Francisco. It has a total of 40 offices and 1200 employees worldwide. Masson’s extensive experience working for Public Safety Canada, the U.K. Ministry of Defence and Royal Auxiliary Air Force uniquely positioned him to lead Darktrace’s impressive growth in Canada, seeing the company sign two new customers per week. Having spent most of his career working in the national security both in the U.K. and in Canada, Masson describes himself as a risk manager. “I’ve seen cyber go from analogue to digital…and cyberattacks have been going on for a long, long time, long before the internet ever came along, but the internet is going to make them so much easier. And basically, I spent most of my career being a risk manager. That’s one way to look at managing risk,” he said. Now in the private sector, Masson manages cyber risk. And when it comes to risk, Masson said it’s important to remember that risk is made up of two issues. One is the cyber threat that individuals and organizations face, and the other is their vulnerability to that threat. In the government, he says, both vulnerability and the threat can be tackled. So, for instance, nations can arrest people and lock them up, take sanctions against those nations who carry out cyberattacks. But in the private sector, he says, that can’t be done. And what really needs to be done in the private sector is concentrate vulnerability to this threat. “That’s basically what I do now with Darktrace. And with Darktrace we focus on our vulnerability to the threat. Using AI, we’re much better protected than we would otherwise be,” Masson explained. Ransomware hasn’t reached its peak in Canada Talking about cyber trends in Canada for 2020, Masson mentioned that the Canadian market hasn’t seen ransomware reach its peak yet. Ransomware has been an issue for many years, and it gets an awful lot of publicity. Curiously, over the last couple of years, he said the number of ransomware attacks has dropped, but their impact has become much more intense. “The attacks are becoming increasingly sophisticated and will be turbo-charged by AI in the near future,” he said. Although the number of new ransomware families declined, there was a rapid increase in the overall number of ransomware detections among municipal organizations in 2018 and 2019, according to Trend Micro’s 2019 midyear security roundup. High profile threats, such as LockerGoga ransomware, RobbinHood ransomware and Ryuk ransomware, still remained and continue to cause havoc today. “I don’t think it’s finished yet. I think we’re going to see a bigger increase in ransomware attacks this year,” Masson said. Related: Think you’re using AI effectively in security? You’re probably not, says security expert Added focus on protecting operational technology (OT) will be critical this year as well. “The problem with OT networks is that they were never designed with security in mind, they used to be completely air-gapped and separated from the internet. But that is no longer the case. Because they’re now connected to the internet, they’re very, very vulnerable to cyberattack. And I think we’ll see more focus on that in this year,” Masson explained. To improve stealth attacks, for example, hackers can use AI to create malware capable of mimicking trusted system components. Subsequently, as they blend with the security environment of an organization, they can execute undetectable attacks. For example, San Francisco-based online and mobile marketplace TaskRabbit – now owned by Ikea – was hacked in 2018, affecting 3.75 million contractors and app users, yet the attack could not be traced by investigators. More such sophisticated cyberattacks can be facilitated by AI, explained Masson. “Sony Pictures was hacked a few years ago. To carry out that kind of attack, you need the resources, budget, and the manpower of a nation-state to do that kind of attack…very complicated, very sophisticated attack. But with AI, it will not be possible for anybody to carry one of those kinds of attacks. It will basically lower the barrier of entry to that kind of attack to criminal gangs and individuals will be able to buy the attack of the dark web and carry them out,” Masson explained. “And what you’ll actually see is highly sophisticated attacks, rather than just happening against one organization will be carried out against 10-20 organizations all at the same time. Artificial Intelligence, Emerging Tech, Leadership, Privacy & Security AI, darktrace, postmedia Canada can learn from U.S. cyber report, says expert Hashtag Trending - Unlimited sick days for Amazon workers; Twitter forcing employees to work from home; U.S. bill threatens privacy About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada