https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-google-wins-privacy-case-say-what-again-trump-talks-crowdstrike/422202
Hashtag Trending – Google wins privacy case, SAY WHAT AGAIN, Trump talks CrowdStrike | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Google wins privacy case, SAY WHAT AGAIN, Trump talks CrowdStrike Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: September 26th, 2019 Google wins a big European privacy case, Amazon introduces a celebrity guest voice, and a controversial phone call between President Donald Trump and the president of Ukraine raises eyebrows. It’s all smiles at Google. The verdict in a major privacy case is in, and the EU’s top court has ruled that Google does not have to apply the right to be forgotten globally. This stems from a 2015 order from CNIL – an independent French administrative regulatory body whose mission is to ensure that data privacy law is applied to the collection, storage and use of personal data – demanding Google to globally remove search result listings to pages containing damaging or false info about a person. A year later, Google launched a geo blocking feature that prevented European users from being able to see delisted links. However, it also prevented censoring search results for people in other parts of the world. Europe didn’t like that, but Google had argued that applying Europe’s GDPR rules globally could be abused by authoritarian governments trying to cover up, say human rights abuses. It looks like the EU’s top court, alongside other tech companies such as Microsoft, agree. Amazon announced a number of big changes to Alexa, but the one that’s trending on Twitter is the introduction of celebrity guest voices, beginning with the one and only Samual L. Jackson. With the help of neural text-to-speech software that relies on deep learning, Amazon says Alexa will be able to mimic real human voices, and what better voice to mimic than the eye-patched wonder/jedi master. And lastly, a bizarre story about President Trump’s phone conversation with the Ukranian President is turning heads in the tech space due to the mention of the security firm CrowdStrike. Reddit is buzzing about a July phone call between the two presidents, which led Trump asking for a “favor” to help locate a “server” linked with CrowdStrike. The news comes after an unclassified transcript of the call released Wednesday revealed Trump’s push to search for a server linked with the 2016 breach of the Democratic National Committee, an incident that the California-based company helped investigate. CrowdStrike has maintained that the breach can be blamed on two Russian advanced persistent threat groups known as Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear. Trump and other Republicans have partially blamed CrowdStrike for covering up the DNC breach. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Innovate or go under: The value of data as integral to business survival Verizon report offers recipe for honing incident response plans About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada