https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/october-2014-in-review-canadian-tire-money-gets-a-makeover/100632
October 2014 in review: Canadian Tire money gets a makeover     | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Privacy & Security Software October 2014 in review: Canadian Tire money gets a makeover Nestor E. Arellano @NestorArellano Published: December 13th, 2014 In the United States and elsewhere in the world, people in the IT community were talking about Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella’s regrettable comment that women should not ask for a raise and instead trust in the system that they would be justly compensated. It was a comment he later apologized for and something that brought renewed focused to the gender pay gap – here’s hoping this would bring about some real changes in the workplace. But in Canada, people were also talking about the transformation or a beloved icon. Canadian Tire announced that it was introducing a digital version of its Canadian Tire money, the quintessential Canuck coupon which has been good as money in Canadian Tire stores since 1958. The move is part of a push to bring the company’s loyalty program in-line with the 21st century’s mobile and data analytics-focused world. Canada hits an all-time high – in data breaches. Privacy commissioner Daniel Therrien revealed in his annual report to Parliament that 228 data breaches across the federal government were reported for the 12 month period ending March 31. Human error accounted for just over two-thirds of those breaches. The number was more than twice the number reported for the previous fiscal year. And it doesn’t include the embarrassing discovery that the agency lost an unencrypted USB drive when it changed offices early in the year. That was reported in April, after the fiscal year covered in the most recent report. In the race for domination of cloud computing, Microsoft and IBM have found big names to partner with: Each other. In October, the companies said they will now work together to make some of their put their enterprise software interoperable on each other’s cloud platforms. In other news: Lacavera gives up CEO post, remains chairman of Wind Mobile A survey pinpoints a shortage of data analytics skills in Canada Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Privacy & Security, Software data analytics, mobile apps, security September 2014 in review: BlackBerry unveils Passport, Home Depot is breached November 2014 in review: A Canadian classic makes a comeback About Nestor E. Arellano Toronto-based journalist specializing in technology and business news. Blogs and tweets on the latest tech trends and gadgets. Follow Follow @NestorArellano on Twitter Join Nestor E. Arellano on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity How to stonewall the hackers trying to to get around your MFA Why pizza party security training doesn’t cut it anymore Landing that dream data scientist position Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada