https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/global-regulatory-environments-are-10-innovation-cycles-behind-according-to-expert/418984
Global regulatory policies are '10 innovation cycles' behind, says expert | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Richard Wunderlich, far left, director of smart grid initiatives for Siemens Canada, participates in a panel discussion about connected economies. Joining him, from left to right, Jason Falbo, chief technology officer at Mircom Group of Companies, Abhinav Tiwari, head of advanced planning at Alectra Utilities, and Amar Varma, co-founder of Autonomic (of Ford Smart Mobility). Photo by Alex Coop. Artificial Intelligence Leadership Global regulatory policies are ‘10 innovation cycles’ behind, says expert Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: June 13th, 2019 The Big Data and AI Conference in Toronto this week featured dozens of businesses vying for attention and speakers talking about the potential implications of a connected economy. It also revealed organizations have a long way to go when it comes to changing the way they think about privacy in their products and solutions. Richard Wunderlich, director of smart grid initiatives for Siemens Canada, tried to put a number on it during a panel discussion about connected economies. “Our company is seeing this exponential growth for innovation, and accompanying it, an exponential growth of security issues,” he said. “The regulatory environment that’s supposed to enable the innovation and security is probably 10 innovation cycles late.” It’s why many projects leaning into the “connected economy” concept, which is broadly defined as the value created through technology-enabled links between people, machines, and organizations, are failing to take off. “We’re not ready yet to be as connected as we can be to optimize the living environment,” indicated Wunderlich. Helene Beauchemin, legal counsel for Quebec’s research lab Stradigi AI, says organizations need to get much better at defining what type of AI is in their products and its relationship with users and their data. Photo by Alex Coop. And unfortunately, Canadian startups steeped in AI and other technological talent don’t have many good examples to look up to as they try to navigate these complicated waters, according to Helene Beauchemin, legal counsel for Quebec-based AI solutions company and research lab Stradigi AI. “It’s a delicate balance – you want to be compliant but you also want to be user-friendly,” Beauchemin told IT World Canada. “We need to change our privacy practices, but we’re still not sure how to do it in a way that makes sense for the products of tomorrow.” Corporations like Facebook and Google are finding out the hard way that people actually do care about how their data is being used. And while they continue to stumble on their way to integrating better privacy practices, the topic of privacy is no longer something they can brush aside without the public noticing. Growing businesses and startups leaning on AI and other emerging technologies don’t have to repeat those mistakes, but in order to sidestep them, they need an actionable guide to privacy culture, a topic that was the focus Beauchemin’s session this week at the event. She outlined five steps organizations need to follow, but after the meeting, pointed to one more. It should be the very first thing an organization does before the actual privacy discussion happens – define the AI capabilities in your product or solution. “AI is a broad term. So are we working with traditional machine learning? Deep learning? Image and video recognition? Biometrics? Or are we a mining company that’s trying to disseminate unstructured data from sensors that has nothing to do with personal information?” she said. Organizations need to be able to identify the impacts that their products and solutions may or may not have on people. Beauchemin pointed to a tool called COMPAS — the Correctional Offender Management Profiling for Alternative Sanctions — which is used to predict a defendant’s risk of committing another crime. It works through a proprietary algorithm developed by a private company called Equivant that considers answers to a lengthy questionnaire. Studies have questioned its effectiveness and the algorithm behind it, and the debate over the tool continues today. “That [AI] has an enormous impact on human rights,” she said. Once the AI and its relationship with people and their data is defined, Beauchemin’s five steps toward establishing a culture steeped in sound privacy practices are as follows: Drive awareness across the organization with the help of internal or external legal counsel and contextualize what privacy really means to every department and role. Perform ongoing education, and don’t just focus on data scientists – consider having a privacy ambassador in each department of the company. Ensure legal counsel is in the room from the very beginning when new products and solutions are conceived. Beauchemin said too often they’re brought in at the very end when the product is ready to launch. Then a critical oversight involving privacy is found, forcing everyone to go back to the drawing board. Draft a risk assessment plan and make sure there is a full buy-in from leadership. Have a compliance program in place and be prepared to update it regularly to keep up with technological and regulatory advancements. Artificial Intelligence, Leadership Big Data, stradigi Canadian Blood Services protecting its data against natural disasters with co-location data centre system Cyber Security Today: Get rid of old Windows, a warning for Evite users and fake but-kind-of-true news About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Montreal’s Stradigi AI raises $53 million Innovate or go under: The value of data as integral to business survival Data scientists’ actions are out of focus How to get AI right and keep it that way Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada