https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-facebooks-password-flub-at-the-downsides-of-remote-working/416236
Hashtag Trending – Facebook's password flub; AT&T CEO gets robocalls; the downsides of remote working | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Facebook’s password flub; AT&T CEO gets robocalls; the downsides of remote working Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: March 22nd, 2019 Another embarrassing security incident at Facebook; the most ironic robocall ever received; Feeling lonely? Well if you’re remote working, you’re not alone, oh wait yes you are. Uh whatever… https://trends.google.ca/trends/trendingsearches/realtime?geo=CA&category=t Trending on Google, Facebook exposed hundreds of millions of users passwords to its own employees. Passwords were accessible to Facebook employees, according to cyber security expert Brian Krebs. Facbebook has fixed the problem. It also says the passwords were not visible outside of Facebook, and there’s no evidence they were abused by employees. Facebook discovered the issue in January as part of a security review. Most of the users affected were users of Facebook Lite, which is designed for regions with slower bandwidth speeds. Facebook plans to notify affected users. But better safe than sorry – take the time to change your password today. AT&T CEO interrupted by a robocall during a live interview from technology Trending on Reddit, the CEO of AT&T was interrupted by a robocall during a live interview. In a moment of irony during an event at the Economic Club in Washington, Randall Stephenson noticed the call coming through on his Apple Watch and declined it. Here’s what that sounded like: AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson gets a robocall while onstage at @TheEconomicClub. pic.twitter.com/i5llHj6hz2 — CSPAN (@cspan) March 20, 2019 Of course, robocalls have become an epidemic. Over 26.3 billion robocalls were received by consumers in the U.S. last year. This latest incident just drives home that no one is immune from the problem. Even the top executive at America’s largest wireless carrier. Trending on LinkedIn, the tough part of remote working. Product Hunt founder Ryan Hoover writes that while remote work is more popular than ever, and there are many advantages to it, we must consider the drawbacks as well. Problems like loneliness arising from a lack of face-to-face interaction, especially if you’re an extrovert. Also, disconnecting is hard when you work from home. Without barriers between work life and personal life, it’s easy for the work day to extend itself and that’s not healthy. Remote workers also miss out on “watercooler serendipity,” or those unplanned encounters with your co-workers that can lead to the next big idea. Careers AT&T, Facebook, hashtag trending, podcasts, remote working Cyber Security Today: Fake name scams, money for finding bugs and police hit by ransomware HP execs say don’t get into 3D printing unless you meet this one critieria About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada