https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/collision-2019-diversity-in-technology-still-has-a-long-way-to-go-says-ciscos-rola-dagher/418270
Collision 2019: Diversity in technology still has a 'long way to go', says Cisco's Rola Dagher | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Leadership Collision 2019: Diversity in technology still has a ‘long way to go’, says Cisco’s Rola Dagher Tom Li @itworldca Published: May 22nd, 2019 All the tech innovations at Collision 2019 can’t hide the fact that most leadership positions in the industry are not occupied by women, says Rola Dagher, president of Cisco Canada. “I think we’ve done a good job so far from a diversity inclusion [perspective], specifically in technology, but we have a very long way to go,” indicated Dagher. “In the technology space, only 15 per cent of women are in director roles, or below director roles in technology.” Dagher explained that while diversity and equality is an important consideration, ultimately, potential candidates need to be hired based on their skills and merits rather than fulfilling a quota. “As a leader at Cisco, it’s been amazing to see the changes we’ve made from our CEO down to my level, where our CEO’s leadership team is 50 per cent women. At my level, we’re almost at 45 per cent as females. But for me, I don’t hire people to check the box, I hired people for talent and making sure we have the right talent at the right time. For the right positions, because to me, it’s not about checking the box of color, gender, or race, it’s about ensuring that talent that you’re going to bring in has everything it takes to get to get the job done.” The conversation to invoke interest in STEM subjects — for both men and women — needs to start at an early age and heavily falls upon parental vigilance. Dagher believes that parents need to abandon a strict gender-biased mentality when it comes to steering their children towards a certain career. “I think it starts at home. And it has to start at a very, very young age. If your daughter at five-years-old is interested in technology, there are so many programs out there that you could start encouraging your daughter, or your son to go into that career. You can’t say because she’s a girl, she shouldn’t be doing this. And he’s a guy, he should go into engineering.” Cisco Canada President Rola Dagher (second from left) at the Women of Impact 2019 event with other attendees. (Source: Cisco) An equally critical component in shaping a gender-diverse tech workforce is ensuring kids can have all the resources they need in early education. Schools need to support more high-quality programs to allow kids to experiment and experience the different facets of technology. “It has to start in elementary school as well. Because by the time by the time a girl is a nine-year-old, she’s already kind of thinking: ‘Okay, this is what I want to do’, and there are enough programs that week and camps in the summer that you can guide your kids to go through it. So today is the digital transformation, the fourth industrial revolution, where all you have is technology, and it is impacting human progress. So kids have so much more than they can do with verses 20 and 30 years ago because we didn’t have that luxury.” Currently, Dagher is the president of Cisco’s Connected Women, a program that highlights female leaders in the technology space. She also frequently participates in Cisco events including Cisco Women Entrepreneurship, Girls Who Code, as well as the Connected North program. In February, Rola Dagher was named as the “2019 Woman of the Year” at Women in Communications and Technology’s Leadership Excellence Award. Before helming the executive position at Cisco Canada, Dagher was the vice-president for Dell EMC’s Infrastructure Solutions Group. Throughout her career, Dagher has over 25 years of experience in leadership and the vendor market space. Careers, Leadership Cisco, collision 2019, event, Female Entrepreneurs, Rola Dagher, women in IT, Women in STEM Google admits two password hash blunders, one dating back 14 years Interac and Mastercard announce international e-transfers at Collision About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cisco commits $225 million to COVID-19 response Year Zero I A Reimagination of the Future with Sophia Fairweather, One of Canada’s Brightest Young Digital Luminaries Why aren’t women in cybersecurity? Because sometimes they get groped at work Only one woman applied for information security job, a clear signal that ‘something isn’t working right’ Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada