https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/deloittes-2020-tmt-predictions-5gs-impact-on-healthcare-will-be-significant/426118
Deloitte's 2020 TMT Predictions: 5G's impact on healthcare will be significant | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Duncan Stewart, director of research, TMT, Deloitte Canada Artificial Intelligence Public Sector Wireless & IoT Deloitte’s 2020 TMT Predictions: 5G’s impact on healthcare will be significant Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: January 16th, 2020 Expect heavy-duty AI capabilities in your pocket this year and explosive growth in the 5G market, according to Deloitte’s annual TMT predictions, growth that will be felt by all industries, especially healthcare. Deloitte held its annual TMT Predictions event on Jan. 14 which provided the company’s outlook on key trends in technology, media and telecommunications over the next five years. Over 100 companies around the world are expected to begin testing private 5G deployments by the end of 2020 Deloitte is projecting that by 2025, the 5G market is poised to experience a 55 per cent compound annual growth rate of over $6 billion per year and that more than 100 organizations around the world will begin testing private 5G deployments by the end of 2020. “5G will allow for significantly better density. Density is going to change things for consumers and businesses. Where I think it gets more interesting is something like a hospital or a technology campus using private 5G, it’s a PBX (private branch exchange) for cellular to drive down their costs and increase their privacy, security and resilience. Instead of there being a single public 5G network, we want to think about an overlay public 5G network with micro private 5G sites. That has an impact on business…it’s not really a consumer thing,” Duncan Stewart, director of research, TMT, Deloitte Canada, told IT World Canada at the event. Hospitals could benefit from this greatly, he added. “Picture Mount Sinai and Sick Kids Hospital having their own private 5G. Wiring in a hospital is incredibly annoying. They’ve already got lots of equipment and running a new wire costs thousands of dollars. Why? It’s not because it costs that much, it’s because you’ve got to bring in a technician that’s properly trained to work in a hospital. They have to have all their equipment sanitized and scrubbed and disinfected. The cost of wiring a new hospital room is thousands of dollars….doing it with private 5G would be a couple bucks. And it’s private and secure, and resilient.” More than 750 million edge artificial intelligence (AI) chips are expected to be sold in 2020 Deloitte predicts sales of edge AI chips will go up significantly in 2020. Over 750 million of these chips are expected to be sold over the year, representing a rise of more than 100 per cent in sales recorded in 2017, and $2.6 billion in revenue. New edge AI chips will bring AI capabilities directly to the device, allowing it to perform or accelerate machine learning tasks without having to connect to the internet, unlocking countless opportunities for businesses. The edge AI chip industry is poised for growth (Source: Deloitte TMT Predictions Report) “When we talk about low latency on 5G, we’re talking about millisecond or two. I can now work even when the network goes down,” said Stewart. “Canada is a world leader in AI, specifically on the software and the algorithm side. In terms of implementing edge AI chips, Canada’s absolutely on par with any other country in the world. We are not behind but we’re not particularly ahead. This will be something that happens over time.” Among other important predictions was that Deloitte expects almost one million robots to be sold for enterprise use in 2020. Just over half of this number will be the versatile, cart-like service units (professional service units robots), which will likely surpass the kind with arms (industrial robots) in revenue by the year 2022. Deloitte also reported that, at 172, the density of robots in the Canadian manufacturing industry in the year 2018 was above the world average of 99 robots per 10,000 workers. Artificial Intelligence, Public Sector, Wireless & IoT 2020 predictions, 5G, Deloitte, edge, robots Rogers rolls out 5G network in Canada, joins global forum How to stop 'conversation hijacking' from hijacking your firm About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content ISED details 3,500MHz 5G spectrum auction criterias Rajeev Suri to step down as president and CEO of Nokia Ericsson announces partnership with Carleton University to research 5G tech Renting a new office building? Check its network infrastructure first Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada