https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/bell-chooses-nokia-as-first-5g-network-supplier-awaits-huawei-decision/426972
Bell chooses Nokia as 'first' 5G network supplier, awaits Huawei decision | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Mobility Privacy & Security Bell chooses Nokia as ‘first’ 5G network supplier, awaits Huawei decision Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: February 6th, 2020 Bell has decided not to let the federal government’s long-pending decision on allowing carriers here to use Huawei equipment in next-generation cellular to hold up its 5G wireless network plans. The company announced this morning in a news release with its quarterly results that it has chosen Nokia as its “first” 5G network equipment supplier. Nokia has been a long time Bell supplier. At the same time, Bell said it’s ready to deliver initial 5G service in urban centres across Canada as next-generation smartphones come to market during the year. Observers note that using the word “first” means Bell is leaving the door open to buying Huawei equipment, should Ottawa allow it. Ottawa is still considering whether it will refuse to allow carriers to use Huawei equipment in 5G networks for security reasons. UDPATE: A spokesperson said the Nokia equipment will be in the access part of Bell’s 5G network. Bell hasn’t announced a supplier for the core of its 5G network. Nokia is the supplier to the core in the current 4G network. Last week the U.K. government decided to refuse to allow carriers to buy 5G network equipment from “high-risk” manufacturers — presumably including Huawei — for the core of their networks. Carriers could only use gear from these suppliers in access, or outer, parts of their networks. Partly in response to the U.K. decision, Vodafone, one of Europe’s biggest carriers, announced yesterday it will phase out Huawei gear from its existing core network across Europe over the next five years at a cost of about US$220 million. For years, Bell and Telus have been using equipment from Huawei as well as Nokia in their existing wireless networks. Bell’s Nokia announcement comes shortly after competitor Rogers Communications announced it has started to roll out the country’s first 5G network, in Vancouver, Toronto, Ottawa and Montreal. Like Bell, it says the network will become operational once 5G-enabled smartphones become available later in the year. (This story has been updated from the original to note Nokia will be the 5G access supplier) Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility, Privacy & Security Bell, Huawei 5G, postmedia, security strategies Hashtag Trending - Coronoavirus scares MWC; YouTube revenue detailed; Chrome to curb annoying ads Toronto man's lawsuit against Apple a reminder that disability discrimination in tech still happens, says employment lawyer About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada