https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-everyone-using-cryptocurrency-a-cashless-world-and-payment-data-is-king-2/413106
Hashtag Trending: Everyone using cryptocurrency, a cashless world, and payment data is king | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Hashtag Trending: Everyone using cryptocurrency, a cashless world, and payment data is king Meagan Simpson @megesimpson Published: January 1st, 2019 Cryptocurrency becomes easier, no more cash, and payment data improves businesses Listen to the latest Hashtag Trending HERE! My first prediction in this new year is that cryptocurrency will be easier for the everyday person to use. Fintech companies and startups like Coinsquare will drive easier access to digital wallets and cryptocurrency investment platforms through mobile apps. More Canadians will be comfortable using the digital currency. And while we may not necessarily use it to make regular purchases, more people will use cryptocurrency for investment purposes, this past year alone 58 per cent of Canadians who owned Bitcoin used it for investing and that number is set to grow. Thanks to digital wallets and investment platforms, 2019 will bring easier access to Bitcoin, Ethereum, Dogecoin or whatever your crypto of choice might be. My second prediction is that cash will be worthless. Okay, definitely not worthless, don’t go throwing out your $20 bills just yet. But I do predict that more stores are going to forgo cash completely in favour of contactless payments. There has been an increasing number of stores, including small food retailers in major cities like Toronto that advertise being ‘cashless’. I think in 2019 this number will grow and payments will become even faster as more people use contactless methods, whether that’s tapping your card, or using mobile wallets like Google or Apple Pay. I don’t know if this will have much of an effect on our daily lives, as, I don’t know about you, but I very rarely carry cash on me anyway. Almost all of my transactions are cashless already. Finally, data is king. Accessing payment data will be easier than ever thanks to Canada modernizing its B2B payment infrastructure with the real-time rail system, and other platforms like Moneris’ newly launched tool that uses its payment data to measure digital marketing ROI. With real-time rail, Canadian banks, for example, will see changes in their ability to send and receive payment data. This type of data can be shared with business clients to help them better understand consumer or customer habits. In Fintech, payment and consumer data will help businesses better understand how people interact with their brand and improve a brands ability to build strategies from the ever important, customer-first mindset. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech business data, cryptocurrency, digital payments, FinTech, hashtag trending, podcasts What's ahead for Sidewalk Labs development in 2019? Hashtag Trending - VR to make greater splash; wearable sales will rise; more personalized content About Meagan Simpson Meagan Simpson is a Jr. staff writer for IT World Canada. A graduate of Carleton University’s journalism program, she loves sports, travelling, reading and photography, and when not covering tech news she can be found cuddled up on the couch with her cat and a good book. Follow Follow @megesimpson on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada