https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/clearview-ais-says-its-client-list-was-stolen/427785
Clearview AI's says its client list was stolen | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Privacy & Security Clearview AI says its client list was stolen Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: February 27th, 2020 Controversial facial recognition software startup, Clearview AI, this week revealed that they had their entire client list stolen by someone with “unauthorized access”. As first reported by The Daily Beast, the data accessed included Clearview’s customer list, the number of accounts each customer has, and the number of searches those customers had made. The company’s attorney, Tor Ekeland, said that the bug that allowed the breach to occur has since been patched. The company, whose facial recognition solution allows law enforcement to scrape data from across social media platforms, is by no means a stranger to controversy. It’s currently under investigation by the Privacy Commissioner of Canada. It has also been under fire from privacy experts following the discovery that Toronto Police Services were using the app without the police chief’s knowledge. One cybersecurity expert, Brian Warehime, the principal threat researcher at ZeroFOX, wrote in an emailed statement that such a breach should have been preventable with regular security checks. “Although these services offer data storage capabilities, a good threat model assumes that they are publicly accessible, and then a security department should review how to limit exposure. Consistent scanning of your assets/buckets to audit against this model is a necessity,” said Warehime. “Any breach, regardless of what data was leaked, is likely to have lasting impact, and this holds true for something as sensitive as a client list for a controversial company like Clearview AI.” According to previous reports, the company’s clients include law enforcement agencies from all across North America, including the FBI and Homeland Security. Artificial Intelligence, Privacy & Security breach, clearview AI The Business Leadership Podcast: Shrad Rao, CEO of Wagepoint Microsoft Partners with Quebec's Terranova Security to deliver cybersecurity training About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity Some Ontario beer chain outlets forced to use cash-only after cyber attack Privacy expert calls Toronto police’s use of Clearview AI ‘appalling’ U.S. indicts four Chinese military members for 2017 Equifax breach Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada