https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/blackberry-makes-largest-acquisition-ever-in-1-4b-purchase-of-ai-firm-cylance/411937
BlackBerry makes largest acquisition ever in $1.4B purchase of AI firm Cylance | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Privacy & Security BlackBerry makes largest acquisition ever in $1.4B purchase of AI firm Cylance Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: November 16th, 2018 Waterloo, Ont.-based BlackBerry Ltd. is making its largest acquisition ever in acquiring Irvine, Calif.-based Cylance for $1.4 billion, the firms announced Friday. Founded in 2012, Cylance is known for its artificial intelligence software that aims to intercept security breaches before they occur. It’s one of several firms that are touting new AI capabilities to help enterprises stay one step ahead of hackers. This space has been a hot one this year, attracting venture capital investments and acquisitions. BlackBerry will wholly acquire Cylance, according to a press release, for $1.4 billion in cash, plus the assumption on unvested employee incentive awards. The deal is expected to close before the end of BlackBerry’s next fiscal year, which arrives in February 2019. BlackBerry has been pursuing Cylance for about three months, as the firm pursued a path towards an initial public offering, Chen explained in a conference call with media. “We kind of interrupted their process of life,” he says. “We are very happy to put the two companies together.” Along with Cylance, BlackBerry will onboard its 3,500 customers, which includes 20 per cent of the Fortune 500. Chen said that will lead to cross-selling opportunities for BlackBerry, given that Cylance has focused on fixed point security solutions, and BlackBerry can provide its mobile security solutions. By integrating Cylance’s AI-powered security into the BlackBerry Spark platform, the Waterloo-based firm will be able to offer its customers a way to have Internet of Things devices communicate securely and privately, Chen says. BlackBerry, which became famous for selling mobile handsets in 2000s, has since pivoted to software and services. Its BlackBerry Spark platform focuses on enabling what it coins the “Enterprise of Things.” “This will be a big part of making that platform a reality,” Chen says. “The protection has to be at the end points. The next level is the end points coming in all shapes and sizes.” Cylance’s solution offers a lightweight client that is suitable for IoT devices that don’t have much to offer in the way of processing power or memory. It also doesn’t require updates to function properly, since it doesn’t rely on signature-based threat detection. “Signatures just don’t work anymore,” McClure says. “Signatures are what you know. The only way to secure against what you don’t know is with machine learning and artificial intelligence.” An investor deck offers this graphic illustrating where Cylance will be integrated with Spark: Asked if the acquisition means that Cylance customers will be Spark users in the future, McClure didn’t say it was a given, but didn’t deny the possibility. “Customers should take a look at BlackBerry Spark and see what it offers,” he says. “We’ll be looking to provide AI there.” Chen said there will be opportunities to embed Cylance into BlackBerry’s QNX product as well. The embedded operating system, from a 2010 acquisition of an Ottawa-based firm, is in 120 million cars worldwide. The acquisition also has implications for channel partners. Cylance’s revenue is 100 per cent driven by channel sales. McClure says partners will be able to offer up BlackBerry products. “This is a huge opportunity for them to sell more, to sell deeper, to sell broader. I think every partner will be super-excited about this.” BlackBerry anticipates its percentage of revenue coming from the channel will increase as a result of the deal, Chen says. Cylance will continue to operate as an independent business unit within BlackBerry, with McClure reporting directly to Chen. Artificial Intelligence, Privacy & Security BlackBerry, machine learning, postmedia Why a seemingly insignificant financial merger triggered huge wave of Canadian phishing attacks Hashtag Trending: Google Pixel's Night Sight, Japan’s cyber-illiterate minister, Apple Watch gets a better Spotify app About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada