https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-saas-providers-will-grow-hybrid-cloud-emerges-the-winner-battle-for-desktops/413083
Hashtag Trending – SaaS providers will grow; hybrid-cloud emerges the winner; battle for desktops; | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Cloud Hashtag Trending – SaaS providers will grow; hybrid-cloud emerges the winner; battle for desktops; Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: December 26th, 2018 In 2019, SaaS providers will double down on investments, hybrid cloud will emerge as the dominant solution, and Windows will have its hands full during the war for desktops. It’s all the tech news that we predict will be trending in 2019. As the number of cloud services and solutions continue to rise, we’re going to see subscription-based-software-as-a-Service such as Oracle and Salesforce.com, double-down on their investments in all types of business applications for the enterprise. SaaS applications will grow at an 18 per cent compound-annual-growth-rate by 2020, according to Bain and Company, but I think that number will end up being higher as SaaS companies try to blunt the momentum of platform and infrastructure-as-a-service giants, like AWS, Azure and Google Cloud, which also continue to see rapid growth. I’m guessing SaaS providers will expand into more vertical industry markets next year, and deliver customers applications with a bevy of AI-assisted capabilities. Migrating entire workloads to the cloud has proved more challenging than expected, which is why hybrid cloud solutions will play an enormous role in 2019. We’re seeing evidence of this already. AWS began introducing on-premises offerings in 2018, and Google is banking on its recent hire, ex-Oracle cloud chief Thomas Kurian, to bring a hybrid-cloud mentality across the company. Hybrid cloud solutions are what helped Microsoft solidify itself as the runner up to AWS in the cloud market, and it’s also what’s kept IBM in the game as well. IBM is likely to make more noise in 2019 when it comes to hybrid cloud, thanks to the acquisition of Red Hat in October. And lastly, 2019 will be the year of migrations. With Windows 7 end-of-life slated for Jan. 14, 2020, it will be interesting to see how many people simply switch over to Windows 10. Or will they embrace Google Chromebooks and AWS Workspaces? Windows recently stated more than half of all commercial Windows devices are now running Windows 10, and Office 365 Commercial subscribers hit the 155 million mark in October, but if you think about how Amazon is already dominating the landscape when it comes to hosting companies’ data, applications, networking and even security, it’s easy to imagine companies handing over the keys to their desktops as well. I don’t think Chromebooks are going to take much of the pie, but if the reports are true and the Snapdragon 845 chipset powers Chromebooks starting mid-2019, they might make more of a splash than anticipated. That’s what will be trending in 2019. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC podcast network. Careers, Cloud cloud, hashtag trending, podcasts, SaaS HashTag Trending - faster phones; notch no more; and maybe even 5G Cyber Security Today: Dec. 26, 2018 -- Boxing Day online shopping advice About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada