https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/mastercard-and-zoho-expand-partnership-to-provide-tools-on-a-global-scale/420058
Mastercard and Zoho expand partnership to provide tools on a global scale | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Digital Transformation Mobility Mastercard and Zoho expand partnership to provide tools on a global scale Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: July 17th, 2019 After beginning their partnership in India, Zoho Corp. and Mastercard Inc. have announced a partnership expansion to provide Zoho’s tools to Mastercard clients all over the world. The partnership gives Mastercard’s SMB clients access to the Zoho suite, which includes marketing, accounting, and CRM tools to automate and digitize time-intensive, paper-based processes. “We are excited to partner with Mastercard, a company committed to empowering small business owners across the globe. This partnership connects small businesses to the innovative applications that enable them to access, manage and analyze real-time information that are critical to their success,” said Sridhar Vembu, chief executive officer of Zoho. “Together, Zoho and Mastercard simplify the daily responsibilities of these entrepreneurs and help their businesses grow and thrive. As partners, we embark on our joint mission to fuel the global small business economy.” According to the press release, small businesses account for nearly 50 per cent of the world’s GDP and employ almost two-thirds of the global workforce, and Mastercard says this move was made with those businesses in mind. “When Mastercard and Zoho come together, we’re able to pair our smart solutions and scale to fundamentally address some of the challenges small businesses owners face every day,” said Zahir Khoja, executive vice-president of global acceptance at Mastercard, in a press release. “These entrepreneurs drive job creation, productivity and growth globally; it’s critical that we find partners and develop solutions that allow us to help them succeed.” The new solutions will be available later this year. Cloud, Digital Transformation, Mobility MasterCard, Zoho Cyber Security Today - Instant messaging app attack, retired crooks and trouble with RingCentral Bulk of cyber budget should go to awareness training, not technology, says expert About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Mastercard opens global cybersecurity centre in Vancouver Zoho revamps document management, says Canadian data centre coming in 2020 Interac and Mastercard announce international e-transfers at Collision Hashtag Trending – Apple to host a special event; Will Lyft take over Uber in its IPO?; Google and Mastercard partner to track offline purchases Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada