https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/toronto-startup-wants-to-cut-the-time-it-takes-for-canadian-startups-to-scale-in-half/423912
Toronto startup wants to cut the time it takes for Canadian startups to scale in half | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by Feodora Chiosea | Getty Images Careers Leadership Toronto startup wants to cut the time it takes for Canadian startups to scale in half Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: November 12th, 2019 It takes roughly 10 years for Canadian startups to scale. Highline Beta is working towards cutting that time in half. Highline Beta is a Toronto-based startup co-creation company that builds and funds new ventures alongside leading global enterprises. It unlocks assets and resources at global corporations, such as Anheuser-Busch InBev (AB InBev) and RBC, acting as a bridge connecting these companies to the startup ecosystem. “We work alongside startup founders to support them through validating their earliest assumption. And a lot of startups fail because they don’t do that early work,” Lauren Robinson, general partner of Highline Beta told IT World Canada. According to the company, traditional venture capital (VC) models don’t allow for enough capital to run the support network needed for entrepreneurs to succeed. Highline Beta runs corporate accelerator programs and corporate co-creation programs where it works on the upfront validation and unique access into corporate partners. This allows the company to work alongside founders of startups at the earliest stage and before it even invests in them, in addition to supporting the founders as their respective startups grow and scale. Highline Beta works with leading corporations to build and fund new ventures from the ground up (co-creation) A recent study by the University of Toronto revealed that despite being ranked third in the world for the sums of venture capital invested per year, Canada ranks last in the world at turning these funds to unicorns. Corporations are rethinking how to approach VCs in Canada, said Robinson. “The number of corporate venture deals in Canada have increased to three times over the last couple of years. More and more fortune 500 companies are launching corporate venturing units and rethinking the traditional venture capital approach to really incorporate how to work specifically with startup companies that are disrupting their industries. They are also thinking through ways where they can partner alongside startups to solve some of those challenges,” she said. Highline Beta works directly with corporate partners to help identify opportunities for growth and innovation. Thereafter, with its funds, the company does two streams of investments where it can help corporate partners identify the in-market startups that solve those challenges or co-create alongside a corporate partners and entrepreneurs that it brings into the business. Highline Beta helps drive corporate growth through collaborations with top startups (Corporate Accelerators program) Highline Beta has been driving this shift, and in 2020, Marcus Daniels, co-founder of Highline Beta, thinks investors will focus on more stable, simpler business models. “At Highline Beta, we’ve always been extremely passionate about reimagining and innovating traditional venture capital models. Through our model of the corporate accelerators and co-creation, we really believe that there’s a huge opportunity for Canada to stand as a global player in terms of corporate innovation,” Robinson said. For example, from the first RBC Reach Accelerator that Highline Beta worked on, Fidel, a U.K.-based startup, raised CA$23.83 million to let developers build on top of payment data from Visa, Mastercard and Amex. The world’s largest brewer, AB InBEV, has also partnered with Highline Beta to create an in-house accelerator to attract the right start-ups to help them reach their 2025 sustainability goals around smart agriculture, water stewardship, circular packaging and climate action. AB InBev launched the “100+ Sustainability Accelerator” by issuing ten challenge statements across a range of issues, including water stewardship, farmer productivity, product upcycling, responsible sourcing, green logistics and more. The goal was to solicit applications from startups that are solving key sustainability challenges with innovative solutions. Collectively, these startups raised over CA$132.31 million in funding and CA$66.21 million in revenue. When deciding which startups to invest in, a number of factors come into play, explained Robinson. “We look at a combination of the team that’s running a startup, the product, the market, how much traction it has, what its business model is, and collectively, we look at startups that are coming through the two types of corporate programs that we run the corporate accelerator programs and the co-creation.” Careers, Leadership venture capital OpenText Enfuse 2019: The Carbonite acquisition, new apps, and updates NetApp unveils its Keystone About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Canadian venture capital sufficiency study: Key takeaways Cyberport: Inside Hong Kong’s unicorn factory Tech Sector Growth Map of Canada updated for 2018 – Focus on Toronto Innovation momentum can help shore up jobs lost to automation Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada