https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/apples-wants-you-to-buy-its-999-monitor-stand-but-its-not-the-only-option/418678
Apple wants you to buy its $999 monitor stand, but it's not the only option | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Mobility Apple wants you to buy its $999 monitor stand, but it’s not the only option Tom Li @itworldca Published: June 4th, 2019 Apple Inc. released its Pro Display XDR in parallel with the updated Mac Pro at its World-Wide Developer Conference yesterday, and its new $999 monitor stand garnered a lot of attention. Alongside the Pro Display XDR, Apple demonstrated its new Pro monitor stand, which can smoothly transition between a variety of angle adjustments and swivel to turn the monitor into portrait mode. Apple priced this stand at $999 USD and won’t be including it with the monitor. In addition, Apple also announced a VESA monitor mount adapter for $199 USD. Image source: Screencap of WWDC live stream. While many have been baffled at the stand’s stratospheric pricing, it’s not the only option. Because it supports a VESA mount, it can be installed on any third-party VESA compatible stand. Although they don’t have the most innovative nor flexible hinge, quality stands can be bought for a tenth of the price Apple is charging. A quick refresher on the Pro Display XDR monitor Designed for creative pros, the Pro Display XDR features a 6K resolution in its 32” panel. It fully covers the DCI-P3 color gamut with 10-bit color depth, and its new backlight can maintain a 1,000 nits constant brightness or 1,600 nits peak brightness. And despite not being an OLED, Apple touts a 1,000,000:1 contrast ratio, though we don’t yet know if this is dynamic or static. During its WWDC presentation, Apple compared Pro Display XDR to a reference monitor and guaranteed its color accuracy. The monitor starts at $4,999 USD with a glossy screen and $5,999 USD with an anti-reflective glass etching. Apple Pro Display XDR. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Mobility Apple, Mac Pro, WWDC 2019 Hashtag Trending - Apple WWDC; Major outages for Google; Doctors battles fake news Overall Canadian IT spending is down, but software and AI spending is going up - way up, says Gartner About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Is my iPhone snooping on my conversations? Apple’s new MacBook Air and iPad Pro bring surprsing upgrades Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Only a select few are allowed to build apps related to COVID-19, says Apple Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada