https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/patients-accessing-primary-care-through-a-virtual-visit-receive-a-response-twice-as-fast-compared-to-in-person-requests/424104
Patients accessing primary care through a Virtual Visit receive a response twice as fast compared to in-person requests | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by Tera Vector | Getty Images Digital Transformation Leadership Public Sector Virtual Visits exceeds in-person care experience 30% of the time Lynn Greiner @lynngr Published: November 28th, 2019 2019 Ingenious SME Public/Not-for-profit | Virtual Visits Health Care Ontario says that less than half of Ontario citizens are able to see a primary care provider when they’re sick. That means an added load on hospital emergency departments. Research shows that 15 per cent of ER visitors said they were there because their family doctor wasn’t available. In Waterloo-Wellington, only 41 per cent said they were able to see a primary care provider on the same or next day when they were sick. Dr. Mohamed Alarakhia, managing director, eHealth Centre of Excellence, Waterloo To improve accessibility to health care, the eHealth Centre of Excellence in Waterloo implemented Virtual Visits, collaborating with the Ontario Telemedicine Network to implement the Enhanced Access to Primary Care initiative connecting patients and healthcare providers via secure chat, phone, or video. Think Research, a Toronto-based company that provides digital tools to enable evidence-based care, developed the supporting virtual visits solution. Both patients and providers can request Virtual Visits. Currently, said Dr. Mohamed Alarakhia, managing director, eHealth Centre of Excellence, 22 per cent are initiated by the provider. Read more about our Ingenious award winners here “Patients are requesting visits related to their chronic conditions, medications, diagnostic test results, new health issues, and as a follow-up to a previous appointment,” he noted. “Providers are initiating visits with their patients to follow-up on test results, follow-up on patient’s existing condition or a previous appointment, and discuss medications.” The practitioners’ remuneration model was adjusted to pay providers for these not previously covered services. Over 90 per cent of virtually initiated visits were completed virtually, with only 7 per cent requiring an in-person follow-up appointment. “Through a virtual visit, these appointments can be completed more efficiently, saving both the patient and the family doctor valuable time,” Dr. Alarakhia explained. “Doctors can also address preventative care measures at the same time with patients through virtual visits, reaching some patients who are not able to come in otherwise. And virtual visits allow additional time for in-person appointments to address more complex patient care needs.” Follow up research shows that it works: 95 per cent of patients in Waterloo Wellington accessing primary care through a Virtual Visit received a response within two days, more than double the 41 per cent who access it in person. Patients found the process convenient and a time-saver and recommended it to friends and family, and many patients use Virtual Visits repeatedly – almost 17,000 virtual visits were made by around 8,400 patients. “We do find that patients who have experienced a virtual appointment are likely to try it again,” Dr. Alarakhia said. “It’s a fast and effective way to receive care and particularly convenient for patients who live in remote locations, have mobility issues, limited access to transportation, or cannot take time off work to visit their primary care provider in-person.” He was pleased with one unexpected result: Over one-third of patients noted that the quality of care they received was better than in-person, with over 60 per cent noting the quality of care was the same. “Although we aimed to ensure that we preserve the quality of care similar to an-in person visit, the results that over 30 per cent of patients perceive a higher-quality of care was a nice surprise for us,” he said. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Leadership, Public Sector Ingenious Awards 2019 Mastering IoT in the construction field pays off for PCL Construction Humber River Hospital's iPlan solution helps reduce ALC days by 4,460 days About Lynn Greiner Lynn Greiner has been interpreting tech for businesses for over 20 years and has worked in the industry as well as writing about it, giving her a unique perspective into the issues companies face. She has both IT credentials and a business degree. Follow Follow @lynngr on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content ITAC launches new corporate brand, Technation Humber River Hospital’s iPlan solution helps reduce ALC days by 4,460 days Mastering IoT in the construction field pays off for PCL Construction EQ Active Brain Tracking: Software for mental fitness Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada