https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/sas-joins-forces-with-iog-to-create-the-government-analytics-research-institute/419839
SAS joins forces with IOG and universities to create the Government Analytics Research Institute | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Shutterstock Artificial Intelligence Big Data & Analytics Public Sector SAS joins forces with IOG and universities to create the Government Analytics Research Institute Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: July 9th, 2019 Smart city initiatives are now no longer just a part of the future. They are here and set to be a large part of everyday life. That’s why the SAS Institute recently announced that it’s teaming up with the Institute on Governance (IOG), a not-for-profit which advises Canadian governments on governance at all levels, and three Canadian universities, to create the Government Analytics Research Institute (GARI) to provide governments the necessary resources to develop smart city services with the best practices possible. At the root of smart city initiatives is AI, and as a natural extension of that, analytics. “Governments inherently have masses and masses of data that they’ve been collecting over the years. And citizens are expecting their governments to use the data that they provide them to deliver better services to make better decisions,” said Tara Holland, the senior manager of government customer advisory at SAS Canada. “The reason that we’re partnering with IOG is to enable the policymakers and the program delivery arms of government in their use of data. The leadership is there. The intention is there. A lot of the infrastructure is there. But turning that into real delivery of analytics in an operational way is still not translated within all levels of Canadian government.” GARI was founded with a three-year agreement and includes the Telfer School of Management at the University of Ottawa, the Sprott School of Business at Carleton University, and the Université du Québec en Outaouais as collaborators. They will have three main goals: to facilitate research that governments can leverage in their analytics work, to provide resources for public bodies to conduct research and testing of their own, and to allow students at the three partner universities to advance their own work in public sector analytics work. “The logic was, by combining academic researchers with industry folks, we can do research that matters. This perfect storm that we’ve created where everybody wins,” said Gregory Richards, the interim director executive EMBA for the Telfer School of Management at the University of Ottawa. “I know that students are always looking for real projects. And what I hear from a lot of my colleagues in government, they have got projects that might be to them to seem experimental. Whereas to us, they might not necessarily be. And so to de-risk these projects for them, we have the students work with them to provide a proof of concept. And then for SAS, certainly they get some insight to what these organizations are struggling with.” While the institution does not currently have any government funding, Holland said that one of the goals moving forward is to lobby for government grants. Artificial Intelligence, Big Data & Analytics, Public Sector IGO, SAS, SAS Institute DMG says Facebook’s new Libra coin is a ‘great idea’ and will push crypto into the mainstream Cisco to buy Acacia Communications for $2.6 billion USD About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Analytical disease tracking has come a long way since SARS, said SAS’s director of government practice Sponsored By: SAS Running the last mile in analytics SAS seeing a 105% growth in AI revenue is no mistake, says IDC SAS Global Forum: Jim Goodnight emphasizes importance of harnessing data to change the world Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada