https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/microsoft-granted-license-to-sell-to-huawei/424313
Microsoft granted license to sell to Huawei by U.S. government | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Richard Yu, Huawei consumer group CEO, speaks on stage at the Kirin 990 launch. Image source: screen capture. Mobility Software Microsoft granted license to sell to Huawei by U.S. government Tom Li @itworldca Published: November 25th, 2019 Microsoft has been granted a license from the U.S. government to once again sell to Huawei, enabling the Chinese telecommunication giant to continue to install the Windows operating system and other Microsoft products into their devices. Aside from phones and 5G equipment, Huawei also develops and sells laptops running the Windows operating system. Its flagship devices, such as the Huawei Matebook X, has been prominently featured in the Microsoft Store. In addition, like many other parts of the world, the Microsoft Office suite is still widely used in China. After Huawei was deemed as a security threat and banned it from doing business with U.S. technology companies, Microsoft pulled Huawei devices from its stores in May. On Nov. 21, Reuters reported that over 300 companies have filed a business exemption application to the U.S. government that would allow them to reestablish business with Huawei. The article stated that about half the applications have been processed, with roughly half of them approved. In an interview with Bloomberg, Microsoft president and chief legal officer Brad Smith said that the U.S. has treated Huawei unfairly. “Oftentimes, what we get in response is, ‘Well, if you knew what we knew, you would agree with us,’” said Smith. “And our answer is, ‘Great, show us what you know so we can decide for ourselves. That’s the way this country works.’” While the development breathes relief in Huawei’s predicament, the company is still waiting on Google, which owns the Android operating system. Google stopped supplying its Android operating system to Huawei smartphones after the U.S. ban, which meant future Huawei phones would be less attractive to European and Canadian markets. In August, Huawei unveiled its own Harmony OS for its IoT devices. Although it has the potential to replace Android, Huawei CEO of its consumer business group Richard Yu said in August that Huawei’s plans to bring Harmony into smartphones are still unclear. Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility, Software Huawei, laptops, Microsoft, operating systems, postmedia, smartphones Paving the way for the future of healthcare Zoho revamps document management, says Canadian data centre coming in 2020 About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei Watch GT 2 ups the ante in functionality Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada