https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/fluke-spinoff-targets-app-performance-market/41840
Fluke spinoff targets app performance market | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Managed Services & Outsourcing Fluke spinoff targets app performance market Kathleen Lau @itworldca Published: July 7th, 2010 Everett, Wash.-based Fluke Network Systems has created a new company to better target the application performance market (APM) with what a company exec calls an “enterprise intelligence” strategy. While Fluke Networks will continue to focus on network installation and monitoring for enterprises and telecommunications carriers, the new Colorado Springs, Colo.-based entity, Visual Network Systems, will offer products in the application, network and VoIP performance space for enterprises. “It’s not just about the network anymore … it’s sometimes more often than not related to the application layer,” said Lyn Cantor, general manager with Visual Network Systems. Cantor explained that enterprises today are able to look beyond the network that is far less “troublesome” given better manageability with the standardization of Ethernet and the common use of Internet Protocol.Nominate someone you work with for a ComputerWorld Canada IT Leadership Award Cantor expects that the APM space will be a “big growth” area for the new company. Visual Network Systems is made up of just under 200 employees, 40 per cent of whom are engineers and, 45 per cent sales and marketing and 15 per cent finance, accounting and admin. The decision to create a new operating entity, rather than just creating an additional department within Fluke Networks, was made because the Fluke Networks’ brand was not recognized as a systems solutions player, said Cantor. “We didn’t have the brand equity with our intended audience that we wanted,” he said. Visual Network Systems’ go-to-market strategy in Canada will be more “direct-touch-oriented,” said Cantor, where the company will reach directly to prospective customers and work with key partners with a broader reach. According to Russ Conwath, senior research analyst with London, Ont.-based Info-Tech Research Group Ltd., the move by Fluke Networks to create a new operating entity focused on APM is indicative of the importance of this technology in the enterprise. Today’s complex infrastructure and app environment requires “APM and its brethren” so organizations can more easily manage performance and capacity, and shorten diagnosis and downtime, said Conwath. “This is an important move for Fluke because by separating out their APM offering, they can gain traction with the non-network IT folks who are more typically the buyers of this functionality,” said Conwath. Alongside the creation of the new company and being vocal about the new brand, two products are also being announced. One, VPM Connex, is a suite of middleware and application programming interfaces that integrate with business service management platforms such as IBM Tivoli and HP OpenView to give insight and troubleshooting capabilities into network and app performance. The other new offering is what Cantor called a “next-generation architecture” at the network layer with enhancements like boosted I/Os and an operating system re-written to Linux. Follow Kathleen Lau on Twitter: @KathleenLau Related Download Sponsor: Kronos Your ERP System Is Leaking How to Better Use a Time and Labour Data Collection System to Plug Holes Caused by Fraud and Waste. Read More Managed Services & Outsourcing Fluke Networks, Info-Tech Research group ICT firms slow to advise Ottawa on digital strategy Ontario's Beer Store inks outsourcing deal Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Want the best-reviewed enterprise mobility management? You’ll need to use Macs, shows SoftwareReviews.com report Is there a best way through a Microsoft licensing review? The Green Issue Virtualization gets sticky, clouds barely touched Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada