https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/telus-takes-home-top-spot-in-pcmags-fastest-networks-canada-test/422294
Telus takes home top spot in PCMag's Fastest Networks Canada test | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Wireless & IoT Telus takes home top spot in PCMag’s Fastest Networks Canada test Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: September 27th, 2019 Telus has been crowned as the fastest mobile network in Canada by PCMag for the third year in a row. In their seventh annual Fastest Networks Canada test, PCMag’s mobile experts drove through all ten provinces in Canada, covering 29 smaller and major cities to test speed and coverage of Rogers, Bell, Freedom, Telus, Sasktel, and Videotron. As per the results of the test, Telus has been outshining Bell to become the fastest nationwide mobile network in Canada for three consecutive years. The report reveals that Bell remains on number two, far ahead of its rivals but Telus on capacity and speed in most cities, followed by Rogers and Sasktel. Freedom and Eastlink lag behind them all in the battle. PCMag said that the reason why Telus keeps winning is because the carrier shares a large number of its towers and a lot of its spectrum with Bell, which provides the two carriers with extensive shared resources. The report also reveals that most major cities in Canada are now getting the hang of average LTE speeds that are better than the new 5G network by Sprint in the U.S., indicating that 4G technologies still have a lot of potential and that Canadian mobile networks are outperforming the ones in the U.S. in some ways. While speed and coverage of major mobile network carriers is commendable in urban Canada, it is in the rural areas where these carriers face real challenges. PCMag’s mobile network experts found that speeds suffered in rural Ontario, Nova Scotia, PEI, and New Brunswick. They also found mobile network situation in Newfoundland to be very weird and expect the recent auction of 600MHz to be of some help there. Related Download Sponsor: BlackBerry The Top 8 Mobile Security Risks Register Now Wireless & IoT Bell, Telus TrackTik CEO becomes the latest CEO at The Council of Canadian Innovators Hashtag Trending - WeWork to clean house; More CEOs bite the dust; Facebook top propaganda platform About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Telus says it’s providing free high-speed internet to low-income families for 60 days in response to COVID-29 Telus to donate $10 million to address public healthcare crisis Bell, Rogers, Telus and others temporarily remove internet data caps Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada