https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/microsoft-announces-500000-investment-in-leonardo-dicaprio-foundation-at-collision/418345
Microsoft announces $500,000 investment in Leonardo Dicaprio Foundation at Collision | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Microsoft announces $500,000 investment in Leonardo Dicaprio Foundation at Collision Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: May 23rd, 2019 Microsoft Corp. is furthering its efforts to combat environmental issues in partnership with the Leonard DiCaprio Foundation, as it announced a $500,000 USD investment to allow for additional grants to be issued through its AI For Earth program. AI For Earth, which was created by Microsoft and has since become a big part of the Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation’s efforts, funds grants to companies using AI and machine learning to tackle environmental issues, with a focus on solving issues related to climate change, biodiversity conservation, agriculture, and water. Lucas Joppa, chief environmental officer for Microsoft. Lucas Joppa, Microsoft’s chief environmental officer, who stepped into that newly-created role last August, says that the melding of the technological skills like those that Microsoft brings to the table as well as the expertise that the Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation has when it comes to environmental issues is exactly what is needed to bring change to this space. By pooling their expertise to seek out the difference makers in the world who need the funding to bring those solutions into the world, he says he believes true progress can be achieved. “The tech sector employs a vast majority of the world’s most advanced technology skills. And if we’re not putting those people into place to help solve the problems that we’re facing from an environmental perspective, we’re not doing a service that we would like to,” Joppa explains. “How do we embed the resources that we’re trying to employ as deeply into these communities as we can? To do that we need to work with partners that understand that space, much better than we do. And so we want our resources to be where they’re going to ask. And that’s what we’re doing. The focus of these grants really boils down to three key pillars: accessibility to funds, education, and co-innovation. And Joppa said that these pillars can be addressed through the grants, as well as through providing grantees access to the significant resources and knowledge that both of the organizations bring to the table. “Budget should never be a barrier to people who are trying to take a technology-first approach to solving environmental challenges. It’s pretty obvious if you take a look around the world that the world’s environmental organizations are oftentimes some of the least resourced organizations in the world,” said Joppa. “And we just want to make sure that the technology revolution that we’re helping drive is available to them. And the same way that it’s available to enterprise customers. So we make grants available to people all over the world.” The program already has over 380 grantees across more than 66 countries, and besides the United States, where both organizations are based out of, Canada has more grantees than any other country in the world. Some of the Canadian grantees include: Lakehead University, who created an AI-powered forest resource inventory service, McGill University, who developed a smart city IoT prototype to monitor and analyze environmental data, the University of British Columbia, who developed a model to assess effects of urbanization on vegetation, and the University of Waterloo, who are trying to develop AI models to predict forest fires. Artificial Intelligence collision, Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation, Microsoft ERP software runs the gamut of customer happiness Hashtag Trending - A brewing tech cold war, Facebook takes on fake accounts, Comcast eyes healthcare About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Toronto’s Collision conference goes online due to coronavirus Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada