https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-verified-me-launch-blockchain-consolidation-federal-regulation/413073
Hashtag Trending – Verified.Me launch, blockchain consolidation, federal regulation | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Verified.Me launch, blockchain consolidation, federal regulation Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: December 31st, 2018 A nation-wide digital identity service based on blockchain will launch in Canada. SecureKey’s Verfied.Me service was supposed to launch by the end of this year, so it’s overdue. But it’s been making announcements with major Canadian financial institutions and tech firms as it ramps up to provide a reliable way to prove your identity online for high value transactions, like applying for a mortgage or even renewing a passport. Since SecureKey already works with the Government of Canada, that partnership can be counted on for Verified.Me. Presumably, the last piece of the puzzle is a partnership with cellular carriers. Rogers, Bell, and Telus need to be on board to make it work. We’ll be watching to see if they make an agreement to move ahead. I predict that there will be consolidation in the blockchain market. By the end of 2019, we’ll either have fewer blockchain platforms in real contention, or at least more blockchain platforms will find a way to be compatible with each other. This past couple of years saw many blockchain platforms introduced through Initial Coin Offerings. But too many proved to be pump and dump schemes, ruining the market’s appetite for this approach. Expect blockchain platforms like Ethereum and Hyperledger to continue to become more popular in the enterprise and be in a strong position by the end of the year. Their open source nature means that it’s just that much easier for different industry players to pick them up and develop with them. Hyperledger is already supported by IBM, Intel, and SAP, and these vendors will have a lot of incentive to maintain interoperability. Regulation of blockchain and related tokens will become a topic of conversation in Canada at the federal level. In 2018, there were hundreds of investigations into initial coin offerings conducted by The North American Securities Administrators Association as part of operation Cryptosweep. According to a report from The Logic, regulators in Ontario and Quebec have each only approved one ICO since 2017. That’s a problem considering how popular this form of crowdfunding was in the past year. Expect pressure to form from two different perspectives: securities regulators will need to create a legal pathway to allow for innovation; and a mechanism to identify and penalize fraudulent ICO schemes. Thanks to Dawood Khan and Marc Lijour for their help with these predictions. Careers Blockchain, digital identity, Ethereum, Hyperledger, initial coin offering, SecureKey Cyber Security Today: Dec. 28, 2018 -- Make this New Year Resolution Top 10 IoT vulnerabilities of 2018 About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Solo effort from government won’t deliver a national digital ID system, says CEO of SecureKey IBM Food Trust ensures savory olive oil and better coffee Bleeding edge information technology developments Ontario medical laboratory adopts Verified.Me network Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada