https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-facebook-announces-cryptocurrency-google-calendar-crashes-cia-spied-through-smart-tvs/419102
Hashtag Trending – Facebook announces cryptocurrency; Google Calendar crashes; CIA spied through smart TV's | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Facebook announces cryptocurrency; Google Calendar crashes; CIA spied through smart TV’s Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: June 19th, 2019 Facebook announces its cryptocurrency set to launch in 2020; Google Calendar crashed for 3 hours on Tuesday; WikiLeaks releases report about CIA spying through smart TVs The biggest news of the day finds its way to us from Google Trends as Facebook announced its intentions to launch its own cryptocurrency in 2020. Dubbed Libra, Facebook hopes the cyptocurrency will replace PayPal as they say it will involve much less transaction fees and should appeal to those without direct ties to banks. The currency can be stored in Facebook’s new virtual wallet, Calibra, which can be accessed directly from within Whatsapp, Facebook Messenger, and of course the Facebook App. For those of us who rely on Google Calendar to keep us organized, yesterday brought quite a scare as Google Calendar crashed globally for about 3 hours. Although, reportedly it was still available from within the Google Calendar app, just not on web browsers. While the service has since been restored, it is intriguing that this crash directly followed a report from Wired that explained how some have been manipulating Google Calendar invites to coax people into giving away personal information. Last but not least, we have a story from Reddit that may chill some to the bone. According to documents published by WikiLeaks, the CIA had found a way to spy on people through their smart TV’s. In conjunction with MI5, hackers at the CIA were able to even spy on people who had turned their smart TVs off by having them enter a fake off mode. Even going so far as suppressing the LED indicators on the TV to mimic it being off. The operation was reportedly dubbed “Weeping Angel”; possibly a reference to an evil life form in the TV show Doctor Who. Samsung responded to the report stating that they were taking their customers privacy very seriously and that they were looking into it. Careers hashtag trending, podcasts Canada can learn a lot from China and Europe when it comes to its data strategy, says Deloitte Cyber Security Today: Telus scammed, EatStreet hacked and watch for fake domains About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada