https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-when-stephen-hayward-the-co-founder-and-president-of-toronto-based-data-and-analytics-solution-provider-project-x-ltd-applied-to-the-scientific-research-and-experimental-developme/417982
Hashtag Trending – Smart Cities Challenge conclusion; Apple Watch update; OCE Discovery | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Smart Cities Challenge conclusion; Apple Watch update; OCE Discovery Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: May 14th, 2019 One smart city in Canada will be $50 million richer at the end of the day. A software update for Apple Watch brings heart rate monitoring to more countries. And why technology is going to eat the world. Today we’ll know the winner of the federal government’s smart cities challenge. This competition kicked off in November of 2017 and finalists were announced in June of last year. There is a lot of money up for grabs here, with a $50 million prize, a $10 million prize, and a $5 million prize, all meant for communities of different sizes and projects of different scope. Contenting for the big $50 million prize are Quebec City; Waterloo Region, Ontario; the City of Surrey and the City of Vancouver, Montreal, and Edmonton. The idea is that the winners will use the funding to execute on their smart city plans. Even the finalists received a $250,000 grant. And now they have detailed plans that could still be acted upon, given the right funding solution. Trending on Google, there’s a software update out for the Apple Watch. It’s watchOS version 5.2.1 The update brings the ECG app and irregular heart rhythm notifications to more countries, including Croatia, Czech Republic, Iceland, Poland, and Slovakia. It may be the last version of the watchOS version 5 released, because we’re expecting to see version 6 debut at Apple’s Worldwide Developer’s Conference in June. I believe we are embarking on the next phase of the Fourth Industrial Revolution – through the rise of the “Disruptors”. Technology is Eating the World https://t.co/jSlbyGYc12 h/t @pmarca — John Ruffolo (@ruffoloj) May 10, 2019 Trending on Twitter yesterday was the Ontario Centres of Excellence Discovery conference. In his keynote presentation, co-founder and vice-chair of the Council of Canadian Innovators John Ruffolo explained why technology is eating the world. That’s a spin on Marc Andreessen’s 2011 article “why software is eating the world.” Ruffolo says that technology is being used as the weapon of disruptors to out-compete traditional players across many different industries. These new entrants are as much technology firms as they are a business that’s focused on finance, health, education, property, or whatever else. Careers Apple Watch, hashtag trending, podcasts, smart cities, Smart Cities Challenge Details mum as Lenovo unveils the foldable ThinkPad X1 laptop Isreali startup launches Hailo-8 AI chip, targets world-wide deployment About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada