https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-huawei-mate-30-phones-scotiabank-data-leak-amazon-buys-electric-trucks/422054
Hashtag Trending – Huawei Mate 30 phones; Scotiabank data leak; Amazon buys electric trucks | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Huawei Mate 30 phones; Scotiabank data leak; Amazon buys electric trucks Tom Li @itworldca Published: September 20th, 2019 Huawei officially launches Mate 30 smartphones, Scotiabank accidentally displays private code for public viewing, Amazon buys 100,000 electric delivery vehicles. That’s all the tech news that’s trending today. It’s Friday, September 20th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending everywhere, Huawei today launched the Mate 30 series smartphone with triple cameras. The Mate 30 Pro has two 40 MP wide-angle cameras and an 8MP telephoto camera. It also brings gesture controls, bigger batteries, and 5G connectivity. The only downside is that it lacks Google apps due to Huawei’s friction with the US sanction, which leaves a Canadian release date hanging in the air. Another day, another data leak, this time hitting closer to home than usual. First reported by The Register, Scotiabank has leaked internal source code and private login keys on Github, a version control website for software developers. The leaked repositories had been set to public permission status, which means anyone can scour through the source code. Scotiabank has since then removed the affected codebases and is investigating the breach. Trending on Reddit, Amazon has just ordered 100,000 electric delivery trucks in its effort to go carbon neutral by 2040. The order will be fulfilled by the American automaker Rivian that specializes in sustainable transport. Switching to electric vehicles is just one way Amazon is looking to reduce its environmental footprint. The shopping and delivery giant is also looking to switch to solar power and reduce carbon output in many business functions. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Huawei Mate 30 series launches, Canadian release date remains a mystery Cyber Security Today - News on two botnets, advice for data breach victims and defend your Defender About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada