https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/how-canadian-insurance-firm-economical-is-using-ibm-cloud-to-deliver-new-technology/407631
How Canadian insurance firm Economical is using IBM Cloud to deliver new technology | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Digital Transformation Infrastructure How Canadian insurance firm Economical is using IBM Cloud to deliver new technology Meagan Simpson @megesimpson Published: July 31st, 2018 IBM cloud is being used by Waterloo, Ont.-based Economical Insurance to develop new ways to deliver the company’s services to customers. The news that Economical would be transferring its data to IBM’s hybrid cloud platform was announced in a July 23 press release. Frank Attaie, IBM’s vice president of cloud and software, told IT World Canada that adopting the service would allow Economical to be more efficient and cost-effective while delivering new technology-based services that will differentiate it in the current marketplace. “The experience of large insurance firms is the need to focus on the digital customer experience,” Attaie said. “The existing customer wants to do business on their mobile phone, wants to be able to get answers relatively quickly, wants to be able to figure out their needs before picking up the phone. The IBM cloud platform gives insurance companies the ability to deliver all those things.” How Economical will utilize cloud Specifically, Economical will be utilizing IBM’s cloud platform for its newly launched broker platform, Vyne, and Sonnet, its fully online insurance company. According to the release, “Vyne will tap into IBM Cloud to help offer an unparalleled experience for brokers that includes updated products, streamlined workflow, and a sophisticated data-driven pricing model.” A hybrid cloud system allows Economical to consolidate its public, private and on-premise data, moving it onto the IBM cloud while allowing the insurance company to maintain, without disruption, its existing IT infrastructure, release stated. Economical also said that it hopes IBM cloud will help reduce development time, increase the speed at which it analyzes data and help maintain security. “We have an ambitious strategy to put the customer first while driving profitable growth and delivering innovation for Economical and our broker partners,” Economical senior vice president and CIO Kelley Irwin said in the release. “We are also focused on ensuring we have a scalable, secure platform. A hybrid cloud environment is the best way to support our business with the speed and flexibility needed for our future success.” Economical has been in business for almost 150 years, and is no stranger to adopting technology, as illustrated by the creation of Sonnet, its digital home and auto insurance subsidiary, in 2016. Attaie said that generally 80 per cent of a company’s data sits in its data centres and behind firewalls, and that By using IBM’s cloud products and services capabilities, companies such as Economical are able to uncover – and more importantly, utilize – assets that already exist on their current platforms. Why IBM Attaie told IT World Canada that there has been a significant increase of large insurance firms around the world moving to cloud-based services during the past couple years. When asked why he thinks IBM’s cloud is a better option for businesses like Economical, he said that technology giants like Google and Amazon are ‘clouds for everybody’ that are rapidly expanding into different markets and collect user data. IBM, on the other hand, is what he calls an enterprise-ready platform focused on and built specifically for businesses and their needs. It’s also made for organizations that are concerned about who is managing their data and knowing where that data goes. “As an enterprise, the most valuable thing you have is your data and reputation,” Attaie said. “At IBM, we are not in the business of getting in our customers’ business. We are about enabling people to be successful for their business, and mindful of their data, because it is their data, not ours.” “For a company like Economical it’s a differentiator,” he added. “Using our cloud allows Economical not only to increases the use cases of its technology but helps in the broader adoption of their technology as customers trust that it’s based in IBM tech.” Cloud, Digital Transformation, Infrastructure IBM, Insurance Samsung plans early Galaxy Note 9 release in response to weak quarter Hashtag Trending - Why airborne Wi-Fi isn’t free; New Zealand gov’t teaching entrepreneurship with video games; Russians have hacked U.S. utilities About Meagan Simpson Meagan Simpson is a Jr. staff writer for IT World Canada. A graduate of Carleton University’s journalism program, she loves sports, travelling, reading and photography, and when not covering tech news she can be found cuddled up on the couch with her cat and a good book. Follow Follow @megesimpson on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Configuration mistakes blamed for bulk of stolen records last year: IBM Ginni Rometty out as IBM CEO, Arvind Krishna steps in IBM Food Trust ensures savory olive oil and better coffee University of Ottawa to open cybersecurity research hub Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada