https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/stolen-unencrypted-nwt-laptop-held-sensitive-health-information-news-report/415414
Stolen unencrypted NWT laptop held sensitive health information: News report | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by DardespotGettyImages.ca Privacy & Security Stolen unencrypted NWT laptop held sensitive health information: News report Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: February 26th, 2019 Encrypting data isn’t cheap, nor is it necessarily easy. However, as the case of a laptop stolen in Ottawa last year shows, the damage to people can be high. The laptop belonged to an employee of the Northwest Territories’ department of health and social services, in the national capital last May on a business trip. It was in a backpack in a minivan without a trunk that was broken into. The laptop was used to do statistical analysis on thousands of health records –almost everyone in the N.W.T — had a strong login password. But as CBC News revealed this week after getting 350 pages of government documents and emails in an access to information search, if that password was cracked someone could get at more information than the N.W.T initially acknowledged. First, the documents suggest the laptop contained health data from as far back as 2009. Second, after going over information the NWT realized that just over 39,145 residents could be affected by the breach, up from the 33,661 that was publicly reported. Counting 257 non-residents from other provinces and unidentified individuals, the total number of people potentially affected would be over 40,000. And third, while about 47 per cent of N.W.T residents whose information was contained in the stolen datasets are thought to be at no risk of loss of identity theft because they were only identified by their health card numbers, the remaining 53 per cent could be at risk because their names, dates of birth and/or health-card numbers were stored on the laptop. Related Articles You’re going the wrong way about data encryption if you’re not doing this For the protection of sensitive data, tokenization is every bit as important as data encryption. We are all very familiar... October 10th, 2014 Michael Ball @unix_guru Implications for encryption (This blog is by Sangam Manikkayam Iyer, principal security specialist, Symantec Canada) Companies of the past, present and future would... May 6th, 2014 IT World Canada @itworldca Some of the health data could be very sensitive. More than 50 per cent of all the records for N.W.T residents were in a tuberculosis surveillance dataset. Thousands of other records were related to HPV vaccinations, C. difficile (colon infections), pap smears, whooping cough, blood tests for tuberculosis, sexually transmitted infections and antibiotic-resistant diseases, among others. Other information potentially on the laptop included: ethnicity, X-ray results, history of sexual partners, dates of death and “risk status.” One problem is the N.W.T. has to rely on the memory of the employee about what data was on the laptop. Ottawa police did not formally investigate the theft, according to internal emails, because was no video footage available from the area where the car was parked. Police assume the laptop storage was wiped and the device sold. In a follow-up story today the CBC says it learned the employee responsible for the laptop had received training on how to securely handle portable devices just two weeks before the theft. The story doesn’t say whether encryption was part of the training. The health and social services department told CBC that since the theft it created an action plan that includes mandatory “advanced privacy training” for staff across the territory, creating guidance documents on how to handle sensitive information on portable devices, creating online training modules for health information custodians and appointing a “privacy contact person” in all 13 divisions in the department to ensure new staff get ongoing training. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security data breach, privacy, security strategies Hashtag Trending - Facebook’s moderator backlash; foldable smartphone comparison; a 1TB microSD card Hashtag Trending - PepsiCo goes automatic; Anti-vax views on Amazon Prime Video; YouTube kids videos cause concern; About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report COVID-19: Toronto mayor sparks debate on possible use of cellphone data for infection detection Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada