https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/over-90-per-cent-of-ics-devices-exposed-to-internet-are-vulnerable-says-kaspersky/384856
Over 90 per cent of ICS devices exposed to Internet are vulnerable, says Kaspersky | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Over 90 per cent of ICS devices exposed to Internet are vulnerable, says Kaspersky Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: July 11th, 2016 There’s no doubt that by now CISOs in organizations with industrial control systems (ICS) that connect to the Internet are well aware of the possibility they can be used as an attack vector. However, the number of vulnerabilities discovered increases every year. At the same time architectures with older systems with unsupported are harder to fix unless the network is completely overhauled. Some firms make the problem worse by improperly configuring their devices and allowing them to connect to the Web when there’s no need. This has come into sharper focus with the release today of reports on the ICS landscape from Kaspersky Labs, which warns organizations they can no longer put safety ahead of security when it comes to industrial control systems. For real-world proof you only need to look at the attack last December on Ukraine’s Prykarpattya Oblenergo power utility with the BlackEnergy trojan, which at cut power for several hours to 1.4 million people. Related Articles Ukrainian power attack a wake-up call, says Canadian utility CIRO A malware attack on a Ukrainian electrical utility that cut power for several hours to 1.4 million people just before... January 5th, 2016 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Canada not doing enough to protect critical infrastructure: Expert Just before security consultant Ray Boisvert stood to address a Toronto conference on cyber security and Canadian critical infrastructure, the... September 29th, 2015 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC ICS systems are the industrial side of the Internet of Things, with control devices found in electrical, energy and water utilities, machine factories, pharmaceutical manufacturing production lines, hospitals, municipal street signals and airports. Through a search of Internet-facing interfaces with the Shodan search engine, Kaspersky recently found 220,668 ICS components on 188,019 hosts in 170 countries. Of those Kaspersky found 13,033 vulnerabilities on 11,882 hosts (6.3% of all hosts with externally available components). The most widespread of them were the Sunny WebBox Hard-Coded Credentials (CVE-2015-3964), and critical vulnerabilities CVE-2015-1015 and CVE-2015-0987 in Omron CJ2M PLC. (Top five vulnerabilities on ICS components. Kaspersky graphic) In addition, Kaskspersky found 91 per cent of all the ICS components use open and insecure by design protocols such as HTTP, Niagara Fox, Telnet, EtherNet/IP, Modbus, BACnet, FTP, Omron FINS, Siemens S7 and many others. These protocols could be used for man-in-the-middle attacks, says the report. “Combining these results with statistics of usage of insecure protocols, we were able to estimate the total number of vulnerable ICS hosts as 172,982 (92%).” says the report. Most of the remotely available hosts with ICS components are located in the United States (30.5%) and Europe. Canada was fifth with 5,413, almost twice as many as Britain. Those devices (or modules of them) came from 133 different vendors including Tridium Inc. (11.1%), Sierra Wireless of Richmond, B.C. (8.1%), and Beck IPC (6.7%). What’s worrying is the number of ICS-related vulnerabilities is increasing. Last year 189 were found, up from 181 in 2014 and 158 in 2013 (although 2012 was a banner year with 192). Of those 189 found last year there are 26 known exploits published. It is true, as Kaspersky notes, that patches and new firmware are are available for 85 per cent of the published vulnerabilities found in 2015. However, most of the unpatched vulnerabilities (14 out of 19) are high level risks, including the 11,904 remotely available SMA Solar Sunny WebBox interfaces that are under risk of compromise though hard-coded passwords. Public Safety Canada has a five year national strategy for critical infrastructure which runs to 2017. “Improving the resilience of Canada’s critical infrastructure will always be a work in progress,” it notes in part. “It will never be possible to protect against every threat or hazard and mitigate against every consequence; it is also important to improve the ability to respond to and recover from incidents when they occur.” It’s time for a report on the progress of that plan. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security industrial controls, SCADA, security strategies Online PIPEDA tool highlights Canadian trust issues 4G networks pose mobility management challenges for the enterprise About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada