https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/city-of-markham-continues-its-digital-strategy-with-your-voice-markham/417706
City of Markham continues its digital strategy with Your Voice Markham | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Public Sector City of Markham continues its digital strategy with Your Voice Markham Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: May 3rd, 2019 The City of Markham launched Your Voice Markham, an online engagement portal for citizens. The platform is a new avenue for the city to unveil project plans as well as for citizens to voice their opinions and ideas for current and future projects, as they can submit those opinions and ideas to be publicly viewed on the platform. The platform is part of a larger data strategy, dubbed Digital Markham, which included the digitization of over 70 services that the city provides. Frank Scarpitti, the mayor of Markham, says this platform will be beneficial to both sides (government and citizens) and he believes this provides so much more than the usual methods of hearing from community members. Frank Scarpitti, the mayor of Markham. Credit: City of Markham “The reality is if you just rely on public meetings, you get a certain perspective from those that come to public meetings. But not everyone has time to do that. We want to make sure that we do hear the different perspectives when we work on various plans. It’s a wonderful way of really reaching a much broader audience and getting different perspectives,” said Scarpitti. “But also, this tool is used both ways. It gives you those links, gives you the updates, gives you the status of projects.” From the government’s perspective, according to Scarpitti, projects like this can have benefits that extend beyond the opening of lines of communications. In fact, he says that they are also a means for governments to provide better service at lowers costs. “It’s embracing technology where technology allows us to provide better service to our residents,” he said. “And also to save money. It’s got to accomplish both.” There has been much outcry for governments to digitize their practices, but it is easy to tell that not much of that has been accomplished so far. When asked why Markham is focusing on digital service delivery, Scarpitti says solutions like this are a byproduct of Markham being such a tech-oriented community, referencing the IBM headquarters, IBM software lab, AMD’s Markham office, and others as examples of tech companies that are part of the culture in Markham. “I have to say it’s part of our culture here in the community,” said Scarpitti. “We are the second largest IT hub in Canada. So in part I think it’s the fabric of our community and what’s here.” As citizens expect more digitized services from their governments, Scarpitti does advise patience and caution to those governing bodies. “I would just say take your time, do the research, and make sure that you’re implementing something that will have somewhat of a shelf life. Because just like any other investments, you want to make sure you get your return on investment.” Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Public Sector City of Markham, Your Voice Markham Huawei P30 Pro review: a telescope in your pocket Cyber Security Today: Alert for Dell computer owners, two dark web markets closed and a school embarrassed About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada