https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/nominate-a-worthy-canadiancio-of-the-year-deadline-fast-approaching/419039
Nominate a worthy CanadianCIO of the Year – Deadline fast approaching | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Leadership Public Sector Nominate a worthy CanadianCIO of the Year – Deadline fast approaching IT World Canada Staff @itworldca Published: June 17th, 2019 Being a CIO can be a thankless job. These days, CIOs are expected to be business strategists, technology gurus and futuristic soothsayers. Yet, as long as the organization’s IT is working, CIOs don’t get much attention. It’s time to give CIOs the recognition they deserve. If you know an outstanding CIO, you have until July 15 to nominate him or her as the 2019 ITAC | CanadianCIO of the year. You can even nominate yourself. The awards, to be held in November, are hosted by ITWC and the Information Technology Association of Canada (ITAC.) A panel of judges will select from the nominations two leaders to receive the award, one from the private sector and one from the public or not for profit sector. As part of the award, recipients are inducted into the Canadian CIO Hall of Fame. The awards go to incredible Canadian CIOs that best demonstrate: Business and technological vision Entrepreneurship Capacity to drive enterprise transformation An operational strength that delivers shareholder or stakeholder value. Be bold Last year, the awards went to two Canadian IT leaders who led bold initiatives that fundamentally changed their organizations. Mark Saunders, Executive Vice President and CIO of Sun Life Financial was recognized for developing Sun Life’s interactive digital coach, Ella, which provides clients with financial recommendations at key life moments. Tara Mulrooney, CTO of the Alberta Energy Regulator, was named the public sector CIO of the year, based on her transformation of AER’s regulatory and business processes The awards will be presented at the Ingenious Awards Gala Dinner on November 27 in Toronto, a glittering event that brings together the top leadership of Canada’s ICT community for a night of celebration. Send in your nominations now Hurry! Don’t miss the chance to nominate a worthy candidate to become the Canadian CIO of the Year. Submit your nominations by July 15. Check out the Ingenious Award categories too. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership, Public Sector awards, CanadianCIO of the Year, Ingenious Awards, itac, Mark Saunders, Sun Life, Tara Mulrooney Hashtag Trending - U.S. carriers hit with FCC complaint; Amazon gets sued; Huawei in the hot seat Cyber Security Today: Gmail Calendar scam, replace these Yubikeys and who's real on LinkedIn? Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content New categories, new opportunities for Canadian CIOs at 2020 CIO of the Year Awards ITAC launches new corporate brand, Technation ITAC appoints experienced executive Angela Mondou as permanent president and CEO ITAC puts forth suggestions for ICT industry in 2019 federal budget Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada