https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/google-ceo-sundar-pichai-appointed-as-the-new-alphabet-ceo/424760
Google CEO Sundar Pichai appointed as the new Alphabet CEO | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Google CEO Sundar Pichai enters the stage at Google I/O 2019. Image source: YouTube screen cap. Leadership Google CEO Sundar Pichai appointed as the new Alphabet CEO Tom Li @itworldca Published: December 3rd, 2019 Google chief executive officer, Sundar Pichai, will ascend as the new CEO of Alphabet, replacing Larry Page who stepped down from his CEO role today. Google cofounder Segey Brin also stepped down from the presidential role at Alphabet. “Sundar brings humility and a deep passion for technology to our users, partners and our employees every day,” wrote Page and Sergey in an Alphabet blog post. “He shares our confidence in the value of the Alphabet structure, and the ability it provides us to tackle big challenges through technology. There is no one that we have relied on more since Alphabet was founded, and no better person to lead Google and Alphabet into the future.” Pichai, who’s 46 years old, has helmed Google for over four years and has worked with the company for more than 15 years. He oversaw the technology development as well as the operations for Alphabet’s greatest asset–Google. Unlike Page and Brin, Pichai actively stood in the spotlight, hosting major tech events such as Made by Google and Google I/O. In the same blog post, Pichai assured that he will continue the vision set by its founders. “I want to be clear that this transition won’t affect the Alphabet structure or the work we do day to day,” wrote Pichai. “I will continue to be very focused on Google and the deep work we’re doing to push the boundaries of computing and build a more helpful Google for everyone. At the same time, I’m excited about Alphabet and its long term focus on tackling big challenges through technology.” In 2015, Google was rebranded to Alphabet, thus provisioning the Google brand strictly for its search engine business. Google’s rebranding also saw it branching its business into other sectors including Waymo, a self-driving car project, and Google Fibre, its high-speed internet service. More recently and more pertinent to the Canadian market, Alphabet has been developing the Sidewalk Labs smart city project in Toronto. In recent years, Google has received increased criticism from the public, chiefly due to its security practices and ethical controversies. Brin and Page first launched the Google search engine concept in 1998 as a homebrew project. Since then, it has evolved into a company that generates billions from search engine advertisement. Out of its US$136.22 billion revenue, US$116 billion–or 85 per cent–came from advertisements. Brin and Page will continue to serve on the Alphabet director board. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership Alphabet, C-level executives, Google Basketball Hall of Fame aims to display more of its collection with the help of Dell Hashtag Trending - Cyber Monday, Huawei’s new research centre, PlayStation turns 25 About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone Google bolsters G Suite Hangouts with enterprise features amidst coronavirus outbreak Google announces startup accelerator in Waterloo and new office in Toronto Say hello to Microsoft’s new Chromium-based browser Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada