https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/apple-business-manager-available-in-u-s-today-canada-by-end-of-june/406095
Apple Business Manager available in U.S. today, Canada by end of June | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Tim Cook welcomes developers from 77 different countries to WWDC 2018. Cloud Mobility Software Wireless & IoT Apple Business Manager available in U.S. today, Canada by end of June Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: June 8th, 2018 Canadian IT companies will soon be able to manage Apple’s tight-knit ecosystem through the new Apple Business Manager. Related Article on ITWC Apple’s WWDC18: An executive summary of every new feature announced on day one Available to Canadians and 65 other countries by June 31, the service will, for the first time, launch support for Apple device enrollment and volume purchasing. The iPhone, iPad and Mac machines can all be integrated. Apple Business Manager is available now in the U.S., the company announced at its Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) earlier this week. Apple says the new platform allows IT to assign necessary privileges to admin team users, set MDM solutions based on device type and manage App Store purchases and licenses across various locations for organizations. According to its website, the App Store has more than 235,000 business apps. The WWDC also unveiled the iOS12, available for all devices that ran iOS 11. Apple says the primary focus this time around was on speed and performance. The new OS will come with a new automatic index, powered by machine learning, that groups pictures of events such as concerts or sports games together. Siri also got a small upgrade. The voice-assistant can now connect to the The Shortcuts app, letting users create minor routines for Siri so she can execute things across different apps. Cloud, Mobility, Software, Wireless & IoT Apple, enterprise apps, WWDC 2018 Cyber Security Today: Another cryptomining attack, update your Flash, more routers at risk G7 vows to work with ISPs, social media to fight abuse of personal data by 'foreign actors' About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Is my iPhone snooping on my conversations? Apple’s new MacBook Air and iPad Pro bring surprsing upgrades Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Only a select few are allowed to build apps related to COVID-19, says Apple Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada