https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ceos-are-leaning-on-cios-to-do-more-a-lot-more-says-new-report/420026
CEOs are leaning on CIOs to do a lot more, says new report, but few CIOs are following through | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Big Data & Analytics Leadership CEOs are leaning on CIOs to do a lot more, says new report, but few CIOs are following through Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: July 16th, 2019 A new survey from Oxford Economics reaffirms the notion that business skills, not technology skills, are becoming more important for a chief information officer (CIO), but few CIOs have positioned themselves as business visionaries. The survey, commissioned by ServiceNow Inc., collected answers from 516 CIOs from 12 countries – Canada wasn’t included – and 24 industries. But only 20 per cent of those CIOs fall under the top-performing category, identified by the survey as Level 3 CIOs. Level 3 CIOs report the highest levels of success across their business in large part because of the following: Their role is to educate other members of the C-Suite on digital technologies They’re increasingly focused on strategy rather than operations They partner with the CEO to set organization roadmaps They believe leadership skills are more important than technology expertise They work closely with the chief human resource officer to set HR and talent strategies But reaching Level 3 status means CIOs not only have to cozy up to other C-Suite executives, they have to convince the mid-level IT and operational managers to be more aware of the business challenges the organization is trying to overcome. It’s easier said than done, according to Robert Osborn, federal chief technology officer at ServiceNow. “[Managers] get comfortable with the technology they’ve mastered. The thought of change becomes very uncomfortable and they begin to worry about getting replaced,” Osborn told IT World Canada during last month’s Gartner Symposium in Toronto. Digital transformation, a concept that became popular buzzword in 2017 and among many IT vendors, can be broadly defined as the process of taking a business from a legacy model of conducting operations to one that is digital-first. One of the biggest challenges with the proliferation of artificial intelligence (AI) and big data is figuring out which parts of the business humans should continue to support, and which ones to lift out of the legacy model and automate with the help of AI, indicated Osborn. Having a presence across the entire organization makes answering this question a lot easier, he added. “Senior members of an organization can say they want AI all day, but you have to ask, are you looking for a one-off solution, or a machine learning engine that delivers higher confidence results and learns over time with the help of data?” he said, while suggesting major financial decisions and safety protocols are in no place to be automated yet. The survey also made it clear that CIOs are struggling to find new talent. Twenty per cent of Level 1 CIOs in the survey said that they would be Level 2 if they were “somewhat effective” at recruitment and training. Related Download Sponsor: IBM Digital Reinvention in action: What to do and how to make it happen Register Now Big Data & Analytics, Leadership Canadian CIOs, ServiceNow New head of LG AI lab wants your home appliances to get smarter We're going 'hard' after Dropbox and Box in the enterprise, says OpenText CEO About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content How CIOs can pioneer digital transformation ServiceNow announces Bill McDermott as new CEO days after his exit from SAP Does mobile-enabling the office provide benefits? ServiceNow is counting on it with its newest offerings ServiceNow conference highlights its platform play Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada