https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canadians-using-bitcoin-for-investment-purposes-bank-of-canada-says/407367
Canadians using Bitcoin for investment purposes, Bank of Canada says | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image from Shutterstock.com Emerging Tech Public Sector Canadians using Bitcoin for investment purposes, Bank of Canada says Meagan Simpson @megesimpson Published: July 23rd, 2018 More Canadians are now using Bitcoin, but it’s mainly for investment purposes, according to a Bank of Canada study. The central banking agency released a report this month stating that Canadians are also more generally informed about the currency, which likely led to the increase in ownership. The top four reasons for Canadians owning Bitcoin, according to the study, were: purchasing it as an investment, friends owning Bitcoin, being interested in new technologies, and using Bitcoin to buy goods and services on the internet. Approximately 58 per cent of respondents cited investment purposes as their main reasons for ownership. Source: Bank of Canada. Reasons Canadians own Bitcoin Canadians’ level of awareness about the cryptocurrency also increased, from 64 per cent in 2016 to 85 per cent in the 2017 study. This is the second year that the Bank of Canada has conducted the study. In 2016 it found that around 1 million Canadians likely owned Bitcoin, using it mainly for transaction purposes. This past year it estimates that closer to 1.8 million people owned the cryptocurrency. Bitcoin is most popular among the younger demographic, with 18- to 34-year-olds being the most informed and having the highest ownership, though ownership increased almost four times over among the 45 to 54 age group. The cryptocurrency is still most popular among those with a higher education and an income of $70,000 or more. Source: Bank of Canada. Breakdown of Canadian awareness and ownership of Bitcoin British Columbians have both a high ownership rate and high awareness, which is no surprise since ITBusiness.ca reported Vancouver being one of the top 10 most Bitcoin-friendly cities in the world. However, Quebec saw the biggest jump in awareness and ownership, which may be due to the increased attention it has received globally from cryptocurrency miners. The study was conducted during an interesting time for Bitcoin, with the cryptocurrency reaching its highest global popularity yet and an all-time high in December of $19,738 (USD). Since then, however, Bitcoin has faced some struggles and skepticism about its security thanks to thefts and hacks. It reached an all-time low, dipping under $6,000, in June, according to Coindesk, though it has bounced back a bit since, and is currently trading at around $7,000. The Bank of Canada said it plans to continue its yearly analysis of Bitcoin, in an effort to understand its effect on the Canadian financial system, and may even consider other cryptocurrencies in its future studies. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Public Sector Bank of Canada, bitcoin, cryptocurrency, investment Hashtag Trending - Google Cloud Next, Google partners with US tech giants for data transfer project, Google’s plans for a trans-Atlantic cable Hashtag Trending - Pinterest ad sales nearing $1 billion USD; Uber/Lyft ban driver for filming riders; Tesla asking suppliers for refunds About Meagan Simpson Meagan Simpson is a Jr. staff writer for IT World Canada. A graduate of Carleton University’s journalism program, she loves sports, travelling, reading and photography, and when not covering tech news she can be found cuddled up on the couch with her cat and a good book. Follow Follow @megesimpson on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Shopify joins Facebook’s Libra Association Facebook’s Libra project confirms its governing council after several major companies withdraw DMG says Facebook’s new Libra coin is a ‘great idea’ and will push crypto into the mainstream Hashtag Trending – AMD announces Ryzen 3000; Gates’ reading list; Facebook crypto Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada