https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-executive-leaves-snap-fake-job-interview-leads-to-hack-roku-pulls-infowars/414245
Hashtag Trending – Executive leaves Snap; Fake job interview leads to hack; Roku pulls InfoWars | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Executive leaves Snap; Fake job interview leads to hack; Roku pulls InfoWars Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: January 17th, 2019 Another executive has left Snap, a fake job interview over Skype leads to a nasty hack, and Roku pulls the plug in InfoWars. On LinkedIn, a lot of chatter about Snap’s chief financial officer Tom Stone, who is leaving the company after less than a year on the role. Stone’s departure is just the latest in a string of executive departures from Snap in just the past year. Reuters reports the departure is not related to any disagreements with the company, which of course, owns SnapChat. Snap has struggled with high turnover in its top ranks, dating back to September, when former chief strategy officer Imran Khan walked out, followed shortly by vice=president of content Nick Bell in November. SnapChat users have also been upset with the app’s latest redesign efforts, which has likely attributed to a decline in users for the past two quarters. Reddit is having a laugh after someone posted a bizarre story about a Redbanc employee who found a job opening on LinkedIn for a developer position. Redbanc is the company that handles Chile’s ATM network, and the story goes on to say the employee set up a Skype interview, was asked by the interviewer to install a program on their computer, which turned out to be malware, of course, and ultimately responsible for hackers obtaining important info such as the employee’s user name, hardware and OS, and proxy settings. The hack reportedly took place in December, but was only made public last week. Lesson here? Don’t download stuff, especially on a work computer, from a prospective employer. Duh. Lastly, also on Reddit, after being banned by Facebook, YouTube, Spotify and other platforms, InfoWars found a new home through the Roku platform. Until now. Following an initial message to concerned customers who frowned upon InfoWars’ presence on the Roku platform, stating the company was providing a diversity of views, Roku suddenly changed its tune after more backlash. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. You can also subscribe to us on Apple Podcasts and Google Podcasts. Careers hashtag trending, podcasts SD-WAN is quickly gaining traction by keeping it simple Oracle opens next generation Oracle Cloud Infrastructure data centre in Toronto About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada