https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/top-6-smartphones-for-business-2018-huawei-mate-20-pro/412691
Top 6 Smartphones for business 2018: Huawei Mate 20 Pro | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Wireless & IoT Top 6 Smartphones for business 2018: Huawei Mate 20 Pro Tom Li @itworldca Published: December 21st, 2018 Touting brilliant triple cameras, robust software, solid performance, and a battery that can last for days, all aspects of the Huawei Mate 20 Pro have received meticulous attention. Encased in a beautiful glass body topped with a stunning display, Huawei’s latest flagship is a winner Android phone. If you can afford it, buy it. This is one device you should splurge on. Pros: Stunning design Fantastic triple cameras Vibrant display Crazy battery life Useful security features Intuitive gesture controls Cons: Speakers sound a bit flat No zoom when shooting at 40MP Certain camera modes only work with lower resolutions Notch Kirin 980 trails other flagship SoCs in some benchmarks No headphone jack Pricey Huawei is still under scrutiny for privacy concerns, but say what you will, the Huawei Mate 20 Pro is the best all-around smartphone in 2018. The first feature to impress is its unmissable triple camera array. You get a standard 40MP camera, an ultra-wide 20MP camera, and an 8mp zoom camera. Together, the three shooters create a flexible camera system suitable for all types of capturing the story from all angles. The Huawei heavy EMUI 9.0 is densely packed with features that cater to normal and power users alike. A few notable mentions include Private space, a function lets the user creates a separate operating environment for either a work or personal profile, and App Lock, which lets you control app access by locking them behind a password. With that said, I do wish there’s less pre-installed bloatware. They’re easy enough to remove, though. To handle the demanding OS and all the multitasking you’ll invariably toss at it, the Huawei Mate 20 Pro uses the newest Kirin 980 SoC manufactured by HiSilicon. Built on 7nm transistor process and based on ARM CPU cores, the Kirin 980 touts excellent compute performance. Though its Mali G-76 GPU is weaker than both the Qualcomm Adruino 630 and Apple’s graphics core, it still churns out respectable gaming experiences. Most business users may not care about graphics performance as much as they do battery life. In fact, battery life is the arguably the top concern when it comes to purchasing a smartphone. To cover that front, the Huawei Mate 20 Pro uses a massive 4,200 mAh battery. Unless you’re running a phone farm or gaming 24/7, it’s very difficult to get the battery to zero with a single day of use. But if it does die for whatever reason, the Huawei Mate 20 Pro can be charged from zero to 70 per cent in just 30 minutes. It even supports reverse wireless charging to power other phones as well. Having both fingerprint and facial recognition sign-in is useful for when one biometric sign fails to work. Some find the fingerprint sensor unsightly, so Huawei tucked it away behind the screen. It’s not the fastest we’ve seen, but it’s more than useable. Huawei paraded the Mate 20 Pro’s AI capabilities upon launch. After a few simple tests, though, we concluded that it lacks the smarts of other AI offerings. While it can dynamically detect people and scene on the fly, its post-capture depth-of-field is a bit wonky. The worst offender, however, is the awful shopping mode, which is supposed to search for listings by snapping a picture. Its abysmal detection rate and accuracy firmly plants it in the no-touch-forever zone. Pricing is perhaps the biggest deterrent of the Huawei Mate 20 Pro. While you do get 6GB of RAM and 128GB of storage, the starting price is set at $1,199. This is pricier than an average smartphone, but it’s still priced lower than the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 and the Apple iPhone XS. Packed to the brim with features, the Huawei Mate 20 Pro is the phone that does everything. It finds its itself well in the hands of consumers and business users alike. Definitely consider it as a present for yourself or others this holiday season. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Wireless & IoT Android, Google, Huawei, Kirin, mate 20 pro, phones, Qualcomm, smartphone Cyber security predictions roundup for 2019 Canada backs U.S., hackers 'likely' linked to China compromised service providers here About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Huawei Watch GT 2 ups the ante in functionality Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone Huawei Mate 30 Pro set to debut in Canada without Google apps Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada