https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/how-to-avoid-the-two-biggest-security-mistakes-in-devops/419483
How to avoid the two biggest security mistakes in DevOps | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Managed Services & Outsourcing Privacy & Security How to avoid the two biggest security mistakes in DevOps Cindy Baker @itworldca Published: June 26th, 2019 DevOps is an effective way for companies to speed up product development, but there’s a risk if security measures don’t keep pace. “Companies sometimes move too fast with DevOps because of business demands and they don’t have time to apply the security framework to all of the new applications,” said Fernando Cardoso, Solution Architect at Trend Micro. The good news is that it’s possible to do both at the same time, Cardoso told participants at a recent ITWC webinar. Watch On Demand: Security at the Speed of DevOps The practice of DevOps is intended to improve collaboration between IT and operations to enable continuous delivery of new products and features. It’s just as important to make sure security is fully integrated into the development process, said Cardoso. The two biggest mistakes to avoid A common mistake that organizations make is allowing the traditional barriers between developers and the IT security team to persist. “Back in the day, developers made code and sent it to production,” said Cardoso. “There was a wall between the two teams, which creates problems in production.” This can be complicated by the fact that the two teams have conflicting objectives. “One needs to create new products and features quickly, while the other wants no downtime,” said Cardoso. DevOps is supposed to bridge this chasm, but “most customers say they have DevOps, but not a lot of security deployed in the process,” Cardoso said. The second biggest mistake occurs when organizations fail to adapt their security tools to a new architecture. Organizations are moving away from monolithic infrastructures that need new operating systems for every new application, said Cardoso. Instead, they’re adopting microservices using containers for each application and running them over one operating system. “Every single app in the future will be a microservice,” added Cardoso. With microservices, organizations can move much faster, because they don’t need to upgrade everything in a monolithic fashion, said Cardoso. However, the use of containers and the tools to manage them calls for a change in the approach to security. What to do instead To close the gap between the development and IT security teams, companies need to improve collaboration and training. “Security should be involved from the very first day of a new app,” said Cardoso. As well, security teams and DevOps need to learn to talk the same language. “I always encourage security to learn more about development. They come to DevOps and say ‘you can’t do this’. They need to understand DevOps and adapt security tools.” Secondly, organizations need multiple layers of automated security tools in a microservices architecture. At the pre-deployment phase, this includes testing to find issues in the code and potential vulnerabilities, as well as container scanning to detect problems like malware. After deployment, security protection tools can block malicious code sent to a container or attacks on another container on the same host. These tools are particularly useful to provide the layers of security needed in hybrid cloud architecture, said Cardoso. With these steps, security becomes part of the continuous integration and deployment pipeline, allowing organizations to move forward quickly and securely. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos Your ERP System Is Leaking How to Better Use a Time and Labour Data Collection System to Plug Holes Caused by Fraud and Waste. Read More Managed Services & Outsourcing, Privacy & Security DevOps, TrendMicro Cyber Security Today -- Vacation deal shopping advice Blackberry expanding autonomous vehicle partnership with LG About Cindy Baker Cindy Baker has over 20 years of experience in IT-related fields in the public and private sectors, as a lawyer and strategic advisor. She is a former broadcast journalist, currently working as a consultant, freelance writer and editor. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Communications with security team still a barrier to successful DevOps, survey suggests Security at the speed of DevOps is possible Technology is the tool of digital transformation, not the outcome: OnX event Circumventing the cyber security skills shortage Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada