https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/u-of-t-launches-fintech-boot-camp/426606
U of T launches FinTech boot camp | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Education U of T launches FinTech boot camp Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: February 3rd, 2020 The University of Toronto has launched a FinTech boot camp and applications are open. The course, which is 24 weeks long and is composed of two night classes during the week and one class on the weekends, is part of a series of boot camps that UofT has put together with Trilogy Education. Maureen MacDonald, the Dean at the University of Toronto’s School of Continued Studies, spoke with IT World Canada about the course and said that a growing need for the skills in Toronto let them create this program. Maureen MacDonald said there is a great demand for FinTech skills. Credit: LinkedIn “We felt this was another opportunity for us to move forward and be able to provide the skills that employers are looking for in this marketplace,” said MacDonald in an interview. “If you look at Toronto, it’s really becoming one of the fastest-growing financial tech centers in the world. By introducing the FinTech boot camp, we’re hoping to respond to some of that and capitalize on the evolving marketplace in the GTA.” Related: Most Canadians are worried AI is advancing too quickly, and they expect banks to have the answers, says study Not only is Toronto home to the Big Five banks in Canada, but it also has over 190 FinTech startups that received nearly $221 million in investment capital in the year 2018 alone. MacDonald said this boot camp will serve a range of individuals; whether or not they have previous experience in the financial industry or not. “We think that it’s going to attract really two kinds of people,” she explained. “Those are financial professionals who want to gain proficiency in some of the high-end tech skills and tech skills that are needed. And then also technologists who lack specific knowledge but see an emerging industry that they may want to move into.” Related: Collision 2019: TD calls for banks to collaborate more with fintech startups on AI solutions One of the major issues that face the financial sector and the fintech space is data privacy, which she acknowledged are serious issues that must be addressed in the course. “Information security is a key part of this and particularly in the FinTech world. We want to teach things that employers are demanding, and certainly, privacy and security is a key component of that.” Some of the other skills and solutions that will be taught include: Analyzing historical credit card transactions to identify possible fraudulent transactions using SQL. Creating predictive models for stock prices with time series analysis using Python. Building a decentralized identity system using blockchain technologies. Applying machine learning algorithms to analyze sentiment scores for cryptocurrency news. Using TensorFlow to build deep learning neural networks to predict financial outcomes. Developing an AI-driven robo-advisor capable of providing financial services with minimal human intervention. Also included will be access to career services like portfolio building, career coaching, and networking events, even after completing the course. While the quality of Trilogy’s courses has been called into question in the past – as some have claimed Trilogy compiles the courses without any input from the schools – MacDonald said that is not the case in this partnership. “We work closely with the team at Trilogy to ensure that the programs meet our academic standards. Before launching any program, subject area experts at UofT carefully review the curriculum to provide feedback and ultimate approval. We also approve the hiring of all instructors and assistant instructors,” explained MacDonald. “Even after launch, the partnership is very hands-on. We meet regularly to review participant feedback in an effort to continuously assess the quality of our programs and ensure we’re driving the best learner outcomes.” Careers, Education financial industry, financial sector, FinTech, University of Toronto Canadian open banking review turns to answering data security questions TCL Communication to discontinue sales of BlackBerry devices About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Banks challenge Canadian post-secondary students to create cyber solutions Most Canadians are worried AI is advancing too quickly, and they expect banks to have the answers, says study New apps for business mobile banking are gaining momentum Collision 2019: TD calls for banks to collaborate more with fintech startups on AI solutions Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada