https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/get-meaningful-consent-when-collecting-voter-data-federal-parties-told/416504
Get meaningful consent when collecting voter data, federal parties told | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by Niyazz from GettyImages.ca Privacy & Security Get meaningful consent when collecting voter data, federal parties told Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: April 1st, 2019 Canada’s federal political parties are being encouraged to play it straight with the personal information of voters they hold. The advice came Monday from federal privacy commissioner Daniel Therrien and chief electoral officer Stéphane Perrault ahead of October’s national election. Their guidance is summarized in four points: Be transparent by clearly explaining what personal information will be used for, whether it will be shared with others and for what purpose; Obtain meaningful consent for the collection, use and disclosure of personal information and only use the information for purposes individuals have consented to. For example, parties should not assume consent to add personal information collected through social media to party databases simply when people interact with a party by liking a post on social media; Provide individuals with access to their information and the opportunity to correct it; Keep personal information only as long as necessary to satisfy the purposes for which it was collected, and then destroy the information securely. For example, information collected for a specific petition or cause should not be reused for general political messaging. The officials are issuing the guidance because the Trudeau government has decided against forcing federal parties to follow a privacy law. Instead, under recent changes to the Canada Elections Act — which came into effect Monday — federal political parties have to declare specific privacy policies they will follow. Those policies have to be approved by Elections Canada by July 1. Related Articles Privacy gap for Canadian political parties; Ottawa unveils election cyber security strategy With the country nine months away from a federal election, the privacy structure around Canadian political parties and how the... January 31st, 2019 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Senate committee: Proposed bill won’t protect Canadian elections from foreign meddling The Trudeau government's proposed changes to the federal Elections Act to block possible online foreign interference in Canadian elections has... December 7th, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC The public should note that the federal privacy commissioner has no oversight role for possible violations of the Canada Elections Act. British Columbia is the only jurisdiction that regulates the privacy practices of political parties. The guidance includes a list of obligations imposed on federal parties under the new elections law and some questions party officials might ask themselves to see if they meet those duties. The obligations include (i) a statement indicating the types of personal information that the party collects and how it collects that information; (ii) a statement indicating how the party protects personal information under its control; (iii) a statement indicating how the party uses personal information under its control and under what circumstances that personal information may be sold to any person or entity; (iv) a statement indicating the training concerning the collection and use of personal information to be given to any employee of the party who could have access to personal information under the party’s control; (v) a statement indicating the party’s practices concerning the collection and use of personal information created from online activity, and its use of cookies. (vi) the name and contact information of a person to whom concerns regarding the party’s policy for the protection of personal information can be addressed. As an extra aid the guidance includes a list of best practices for protecting information. Related Articles Canada watching for cyber threats to 2019 election, says government Canada is "working hard to ensure that the 2019 elections are protected and defended against cyber threats and foreign interference,"... August 3rd, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC “Information about our political views is extremely sensitive and worthy of strong privacy protections,” Privacy Commissioner Daniel Therrien said in a statement. “We know that political parties collect vast amounts of data about voters. Canadians expect and deserve to have their privacy rights respected as they exercise their democratic rights.” Political parties that receive electors’ information from Elections Canada have a responsibility to adopt robust privacy policies to protect it, added chief electoral officer Stéphane Perrault. “Canadians’ confidence in how political parties treat their personal information is essential to continued trust in electoral democracy.” Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Government of Canada, privacy Hashtag Trending – Roku releases pet remote; Microsoft bans April Fools pranks; Google’s best April Fools jokes from 2018 Hashtag Trending - Gmail adds scheduling; New TSA tech; New robot helps disabled About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content COVID-19: Toronto mayor sparks debate on possible use of cellphone data for infection detection During a crisis, use and disclosure of personal information may be extended, ‘can be very broad’ says regulator Canada can learn from U.S. cyber report, says expert SAP selected by government to test a replacement for Phoenix pay system Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada