https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/new-heavy-lifting-drone-gets-green-light-from-transport-canada/407804
New 'heavy lifting' drone gets green light from Transport Canada | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Managed Services & Outsourcing Public Sector New ‘heavy lifting’ drone gets green light from Transport Canada Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: August 8th, 2018 A drone that can haul up to 25 pounds as far as 60 kilometres is slated to begin test flights in Canada’s skies this week. Drone Delivery Canada (DDC) announced Aug. 3 that it’s received a Special Flight Operations Certificate from Transport Canada to begin testing of its Robin X1400 drone. That type of licence is required to operate commercial drones that don’t fall under Canada’s standard drone regulations and is usually granted for specific rural areas that aren’t densely populated. The Robin drone can deliver cargo in two different ways: It can simply land with the cargo on board, or it can use a tether to lower its payload from as high as 100 feet in the air. With the tether approach, the drone never even has to land before making its return flight. Toronto-based DDC is the first commercial company to successfully conduct beyond visible line of sight (BVLOS) tests in Canada, having completed them in Foremost, Alta. in June 2016. Earlier this month, the company announced it had recruited former Canada Post CEO Deepak Chopra as a strategic advisor. Yesterday, the company announced that it will be conducting a pilot project with Public Health Agency of Canada using drone deliveries as a way to improve access for blood-borne infection testing in remote communities. This will involve testing of a climate controlled cargo compartment on the drones. Drone Delivery Canada also says it’s continuing work on a “Condor” drone that will be able to haul up to 400 pounds. Here’s a video from the company explaining its depot-to-depot platform approach to getting cargo across the country: Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Managed Services & Outsourcing, Public Sector Drone Delivery Canada, Drones, Transport Canada Cyber Security Today: WannaCry ransomware, botnets in Twitter and security awareness training Four keys to smashing success in the cloud About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content New global drone standards will help address quality control for a growing market, says CEO of InDro Robotics Hashtag Trending – New privacy tools from Google, Alexa goes job hunting, UPS delivery drones approved Canada’s new drone safety regulations require registration and certification Hashtag Trending – Gatwick’s drone delays, in Russia AI hears you, LG’s clear TV Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada