https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/bell-acknowledges-data-breach/401010
Bell acknowledges data breach | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Bell acknowledges data breach Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: January 23rd, 2018 Bell Canada has acknowledged hackers have accessed personal information of what it has told CBC News are less than 100,000 customers. The telco says information accessed included names, email addresses, account user names and numbers, as in some cases phone numbers. Neither credit card nor banking information was accessed. “We apologize for this situation,” John Watson, Bell’s executive vice-president of customer experience, said a letter to affected customers. “Please note that additional security identification and authentication requirements have been implemented on your account. When discussing your account with our service representatives you will be asked for this additional information to verify your identity.” Related Articles Bell Canada says it’s been hacked, apologizes to customers Bell Canada says its customer subscriber database has been hacked, with the exposure of almost 2 million email addresses, 1,700... May 15th, 2017 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Despite being the country’s biggest telco with a large infosec staff Bell is not immune to data breaches. Last May it admitted its customer subscriber database has been hacked, with the exposure of almost 2 million email addresses, 1,700 customer names and/or telephone numbers. In February, 2014 Bell confirmed more than 20,000 of its small-business customer usernames and passwords, as well as five credit cards, were divulged after a third party IT provider was hacked. A group that calls itself NullCrew claimed responsibility for the attack on Twitter. Screenshots released by that group to prove its claim suggested the method was an SQL (structured query language) injection attack. This latest breach comes as the federal government is finalizing the data breach notification requirements federally regulated organizations will have to follow after an incident. Industry experts hope the regulations will be approved before the summer. Draft regulations were released last September. The final regulations could be released as part of a package with the government’s update to its national cyber security strategy for working with the private sector to improve resilience. In a report last year the Canadian Chamber of Commerce — citing a report from Intel — estimated Canada loses 0.17 per cent of its gross domestice product (GDP ) to cybercrime, which is equal to $3.12 billion a year. The annual IBM-Ponemon Institute cost of a data breach to a Canadian organization study issued last year figured that in 2017 the average total cost to the 27 victim companies was $5.78 million, a decrease of $6.03 million over the previous year. The study looked at the costs incurred 12 industry sectors following the loss or theft of protected personal data and the notification of breach victims as required by various laws. Note that the study excluded companies who had more than 100,000 records breached. Of those 27 Canadian firm studied breaches the costs ranged from $3.81 million for data breaches involving 10,000 or fewer records to $7.25 million for the loss or theft of 25,001 to 50,000 records. Of those 27 Canadian firms studied 48 per cent of incidents involved a malicious or criminal attack, 30 per cent involved negligent employees and 22 per cent involved system glitches, which includes both IT and business process failures. Bell hasn’t said yet what the cause of the latest breach was. By coincidence today Symantec released its annual Norton Cyber Security Insights Report, which includes a break-down of answers from 1,120 Canadian consumers surveyed in Octobrer, 2017. These included Canadians gained or maintained trust in organizations such as banks and financial institutions (86 per cent), and identity theft protection service providers (79 per cent) despite the attacks that made headlines in 2017. On the other hand , 38 per cent of Canadian respondents said they lost trust in their government to manage their data and personal information within the past year. Thirty-five per cent lost trust in social media platforms. Twenty-nine per cent of Canadian cybercrime victims said they trust in themselves to manage their data and personal information. 52 per cent of cybercrime victims in Canada said they shared their passwords for at least one device or account with others. By comparison, only 31 per cent of non-cybercrime victims said they share their passwords with others. Cybercrime victims in Canada were also more likely to share their passwords for potentially sensitive online accounts such as banking (17 per cent cybercrime victims vs. 12 per cent non-cybercrime victims), social media (20 per cent cybercrime victims vs. 12 per cent non-cybercrime victims) and email accounts (22 per cent cybercrime victims vs. 14 per cent non-cybercrime victims). Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security data breach, security strategies Hashtag Trending - Amazon’s cashier-less store, Canada tests blockchain, top tech firms could combine for $1 trillion in 2018 Salesforce CEO calls for heightened regulation and leadership changes among tech giants About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada