https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canadians-skeptical-about-cloud-security-except-at-work-new-study-shows/403859
Canadians skeptical about cloud security, except at work, new study shows | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Infrastructure Privacy & Security Canadians skeptical about cloud security, except at work, new study shows Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: April 10th, 2018 Nearly half of Canadians aren’t comfortable storing sensitive information in the cloud, according to a new study. Forty-six per cent of Canadians don’t like the thought of storing family information on the cloud, a figure that rises to 52 per cent when it comes to medical information, and 59 per cent for financial information. Citrix Cloud and Security Survey polled more than 1,500 Canadians in February, and also discovered a third of respondents replied with a resounding “no” when asked if they think the cloud is secure. When asked about cloud security in the workplace, Canadians are less concerned. The study says 62 per cent of employed Canadians felt that documents uploaded to the cloud were either somewhat, or very secure. At the same time, 42 per cent of workers think their employer is solely responsible for maintaining and upgrading security on all devices. Other stats from the survey: In the workplace, the 18-34 cohort feels most secure storing documents (67 per cent) and the 45-54 and 65+ cohorts feel the least secure (54 per cent) Those with a university education were most likely (71 per cent) to feel secure storing work documents in the cloud; those with a high school education or less were least likely (51 per cent) The results should be an eye-opener for companies when it comes to cloud security, said Ching Mac, sales director for Citrix Canada. “These findings demonstrate companies must take a proactive approach to cloud computing and security. This means facilitating and updating secure cloud technology, and enforcing a cloud security strategy in which all employees are engaged,” he said in a press release. A lot of employees, however – 34 per cent – don’t even know if their company uses cloud services. In addition, more than 40 per cent of all Canadians weren’t sure what the cloud was. Groups most familiar with cloud computing include millennials (75 per cent) high income earners of $100K or more (74 per cent), employed Canadians (71 per cent) and men (69 per cent). Seniors (70 per cent) unemployed Canadians (56 per cent) Atlantic Canadians (53 per cent) and women (51 per cent) were the groups most unfamiliar with cloud, according to the report. While employees awareness around cloud can prove to be beneficial, Mac said it’s not a necessity. “To be competitive, businesses must embrace flexibility for their employees, including cloud-based apps and services,” he said. “Citrix Canada wanted to take the pulse of Canadian attitudes and perceptions of cloud for a better insight into the future of work. If corporations have a comprehensive strategy, the company is secure regardless or the level of employee awareness.” Cloud, Infrastructure, Privacy & Security Canadian cio, Citrix, cloud, survey Ransomware the most common malware CISOs face today, says Verizon Everything SAS announced at Global Forum 2018 About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content CIO priorities reflect changing times, according to new report How Canada can end the false sense of digital identity security ‘Being a cloud-enabled government is a very positive thing for BC’: Insightful chat with CJ Ritchie, CIO at the Government of British Columbia New categories, new opportunities for Canadian CIOs at 2020 CIO of the Year Awards Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada