https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-aug-9-2017-googles-diversity-spat-vr-in-the-browser/395491
Hashtag Trending: Aug. 9, 2017 - Google's diversity spat; VR in the browser | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Emerging Tech Leadership Managed Services & Outsourcing Hashtag Trending: Aug. 9, 2017 – Google’s diversity spat; VR in the browser Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Published: August 9th, 2017 Google’s internal policies are publicly criticized, Firefox introduces virtual reality capabilities, and video games are officially bad for your health. Starting with Twitter, a 10-page memo from a senior software engineer at Google went viral this weekend for criticizing the tech giant’s approach to diversity. In it, engineer James Damor says that Google’s attempt to rectify the large gender gap in the tech sector is sexist because of biological factors, such as women having stronger interest in people rather than things and that they prefer jobs in social or artistic areas. Damor was fired on Monday, with Google CEO Sundar Pichai responding by saying the company’s Code of Conduct was violated by Damore’s memo, because it was “advancing harmful gender stereotypes in our workplace.” And from Product Hunt, Mozilla’s latest update to Firefox for Windows means the browser will support virtual reality experiences through an open standard called WebVR. It only supports the HTC Vive and Oculus Rift right now, but other mobile headsets are on the company’s list of priorities. To access this feature, all desktop users will need to do is open a browser, click on a button with a pair of VR goggles on it, then put on their headset. Besides Firefox for Windows, WebVR is also available for Google Daydream and cardboard headsets on Chrome. And last but not least, from Facebook, a study by two Montreal researchers basically confirms that your parents were right about video games being bad for your health. Published in academic journal Molecular Psychiatry, the research is the first to show conclusive evidence of grey matter loss in the hippocampus, a part of the brain that is crucial for orientation and memory, as a result of direct interaction with video games. Careers, Emerging Tech, Leadership, Managed Services & Outsourcing Firefox, Google, hashtag trending, HTC, Mozilla, podcasts, video games, virtual reality, VR, Windows 9 suggestions from ITAC for the 2018 Canadian budget Why CISOs should merge IT, OT and IoT networks for effective defence About Mandy Kovacs Mandy is a lineup editor at CTV News. A former staffer at IT World Canada, she's now contributing as a part-time podcast host on Hashtag Trending. She is a Carleton University journalism graduate with extensive experience in the B2B market. When not writing about tech, you can find her active on Twitter following political news and sports, and preparing for her future as a cat lady. Follow Follow @MandyVKovacs on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada