https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/six-million-canadians-impacted-by-capital-one-data-breach/420465
Six million Canadians impacted by Capital One data breach | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Six million Canadians impacted by Capital One data breach Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: July 29th, 2019 An alleged hacker who accessed the personal information of as many as 6 million Canadian Capital One credit applications has been arrested by the FBI, the bank said Monday. Paige A. Thompson was charged with a single count of computer fraud and abuse in a U.S. District Court in Seattle. Thompson, who also goes by the handle “erratic”, made an initial appearance in court and was ordered to remain in custody pending a detention hearing Thursday, according to media reports. Capital One said the hacker got credit scores and balances in addition to the social insurance numbers of about 140,000 customers. The bank added it will offer free credit monitoring services to those affected. The data breach affected about 100 million people in the U.S. The bank said it found out about the vulnerability in its system July 19 and quickly sought help from law enforcement to catch the person behind the breach. The FBI complainant that charged Thompson noticed the alleged hacker post stolen information from servers that stored data for Capital One on Microsoft-owned Github. Capital One said the largest category of information accessed was information on consumers and small businesses as of the time they applied for one the bank’s credit card products from 2005 through early 2019. This information included personal information such as names, addresses, postal codes, phone numbers, email addresses, dates of birth, and self-reported income. The alleged hacker also obtained portions of credit card customer data, including customer status data such as credit scores and credit limits. More than 140,000 social security numbers and approximately 80,000 linked bank account numbers of the bank’s secured credit card customers were compromised. “We will notify affected individuals through a variety of channels. We will make free credit monitoring and identity protection available to everyone affected,” the bank said in a press release. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security breach, CapitalOne Hashtag Trending - T-Mobile and Sprint merger approved; India might ban cryptocurrency; Apple gets a no on tariff exemption Hashtag Trending - Zooming contacts; Slack’s down; Tesla to stream videos About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity Some Ontario beer chain outlets forced to use cash-only after cyber attack Clearview AI says its client list was stolen U.S. indicts four Chinese military members for 2017 Equifax breach Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada