https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-dec-24-2018-location-location-location/413011
Cyber Security Today: Dec. 24, 2018 — Location, location, location | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today: Dec. 24, 2018 — Location, location, location Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: December 24th, 2018 Lots of mobile apps can track where you go. Is that what you want? If not, do something about it. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Monday December 24th. I’m Howard Solomon. The New York Times earlier this month had a fascinating article about how much tracking data your smartphone collects and relays to the apps you have. It estimates at least 75 companies in the U.S. receive anonymous, precise location data from traffic, jogging, weather and other apps that use location services on your device. These companies sell, use or analyze the data for advertisers, retail outlets and even hedge funds trying to figure out consumer behavior. Developers say the information their apps collect is not tied to a person’s name or phone number. However, with access to the data and some patient work, an identity might be worked out. There is a trade-off. In exchange for having your location, you get advice – like traffic snarls to should avoid, or nearby gas stations – or free coupons, or advertising. The thing is, while you should be asked by an app if you want to to turn location services on, the app or the developer may not clearly say that the data will be shared and sold. So before you download a mobile app, check the permissions it asks for, and, if you can, read the full privacy policy. Ask yourself if the app really needs your location, or access to your photos and contact list? Do you need it turned on when you’re at work? Does a school-aged child with a smart phone need to have location services turned on? Get familiar with the settings on your phone so you can easily turn location services off and on when you really need it, as well as the Wi-Fi, cellular and Bluetooth connectivity. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Hashtag Trending: AI in the enterprise, smarter chatbots, ethical AI goes global in 2019 HashTag Trending - faster phones; notch no more; and maybe even 5G About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada