https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/nokia-restructures-tech-leadership-to-eliminate-group-chief-information-technology-role/427494
Nokia restructures tech leadership | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Bhaskar Gorti, chief digital officer of Nokia. Photo from Nokia. Cloud Digital Transformation Leadership Nokia restructures tech leadership to eliminate group chief information technology role Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: February 19th, 2020 While an increasing number of organizations are realizing the importance of having a CIO in a strategic role to navigate the complicated waters of digital transformation, telecom giant Nokia has decided to eliminate the group CIO role from its leadership structure. The change took place at the start of 2020, but the company publicly commented on it for the first in a Forbes article this week. The CIO role was last held by Ursula Soritsch-Renier who had joined the company in 2018. Bhaskar Gorti, president of Nokia Software and the group’s chief digital officer, confirmed the move and has now assumed Soritsch-Renier’s responsibilities, the publication reported. He explained the move was part of a broad reorganizing across the CA$29 billion company. The reorganization and combining of the two roles will make it easier for the company to roll out new cloud-native services to its 100,000 employees, Gorti told Forbes, and it follows another leadership shuffle that took place in November, when Nokia scrapped the position of chief operating officer. The shift, according to Gorti, will also help deliver a “balanced portfolio of in-house and farmed-out activities,” the story said. Gorti has been with the company since 2016 and worked in the role of the president of Nokia Software and group CIO before Soritsch-Renier joined the company. Gorti then stepped into the role of Nokia’s chief digital officer at the start of 2019 and has been advising the group’s leadership on critical digital issues since then. Ursula Soritsch-Renier, Nokia’s former chief information officer. Photo from Twitter. CIOs have evolved from merely being IT heads to being C-level movers and shakers at their firms, influencing business decisions and serving as a wellspring of knowledge for all things technological. According to IT World Canada’s own CIO Census, CIOs are increasingly reporting to the highest levels in their organizations. Seventy-five per cent of CIOs participating in the 2019 CanadianCIO Census survey said they report to the President/CEO/ owner or CFO or another C-level exec. This is 10 per cent higher than in 2018 and 14 per cent higher than in 2017. Their responsibilities have expanded significantly as a result. In addition to ensuring that the security of their organization is top-grade, they also need to make sure that the company is in compliance with government rules and regulations. Cloud, Digital Transformation, Leadership Chief Information Officer, CIO, Nokia BlackBerry report says data losses increasing due to cloud misconfiguration Ottawa Hospital announces partnership to democratize its data throughout the organization About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content How Canada can end the false sense of digital identity security Rajeev Suri to step down as president and CEO of Nokia Solving common enterprise data challenges takes a collaborative approach Canada vs USA: 5G (not a hockey game) Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada