https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/toronto-based-startup-among-microsofts-ai-for-accessibility-grantees/423357
Toronto-based startup among Microsoft's AI for Accessibility grantees | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. From left, Vanessa Bourget, orientation and mobility intern at the Canadian National Institute for the Blind (CNIB); Mark Rankin and Emily Baarda, CNIB orientation and mobility specialists; and Yusup Mollayev, iMerciv vice president of data and analytics, at Sherwood Park in Toronto, Ontario, where they were testing audio prompts of saved geotags, such as benches, in the MapinHood app. Photo by iMerciv. Artificial Intelligence Mobility Software Toronto-based startup among Microsoft’s AI for Accessibility grantees Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: October 29th, 2019 Microsoft recently announced 11 new grantees in Microsoft’s AI for Accessibility program, naming iMerciv, a Toronto-based startup among them. A $25 million 5-year grant program, AI for Accessibility targets projects that help people with disabilities through AI tools and platforms that support independence and productivity. The grant is a mixture of cash and Azure credits. iMerciv is developing MapinHood – a navigation app for pedestrians who are visually impaired and also for the people in wheelchairs that want to more efficiently navigate the routes they take. The app uses iMerciv’s custom routing engine, and with the grant, will use Azure machine learning, storage and virtual machines. The app will audibly alert users to obstacles and hazards — from paths with elevation and staircases to low hanging tree branches, street lamps, benches, water fountains and signages — to avoid or take care of while walking. The app uses open source information from the City of Toronto and crowdsourced data. “We have built a fully-flexible, customized routing engine that only caters to pedestrians. The MapinHood app is essentially a crowd-sourced mobile mapping platform built for pedestrians by pedestrians,” said Arjun Mali, iMerciv Co-founder. All the navigation systems available today provide users with route options that are the shortest or fastest for getting to a destination, and are generally used over long distances. Mali considers this to be a problem and an opportunity as he thinks they are not always the best routes for visually impaired or differently abled pedestrians trying to walk shorter distances and find the best walking route to a destination. iMerciv aims to make navigation as assistive and interactive as possible. MapinHood is currently in the alpha stages of being tested with help from four key partners. The startup is working with the Canadian National Institute for the Blind, Spinal Cord Injury Ontario, Walk Toronto and Microsoft. Microsoft has also been helping the company with AI offerings, including machine learning. The company is investing most of the grant money into the AI components of the project and aims to roll out the app on both Android and iOS in March 2020, in the Toronto and Greater Toronto Area to begin with. But anyone looking to try the app today can visit the company’s website and subscribe. iMerciv was founded in 2014, and developed its first product – BuzzClip – earlier this year. It is a 2-ounce, clip-on wearable device that uses ultrasound to detect obstacles in a person’s path, then alerts the user with different vibrations and frequencies. Artificial Intelligence, Mobility, Software accessibility, Microsoft Amazon 'surprised' about Pentagon contract snub Privacy czars call on governments to recognize privacy as a fundamental right About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Hiring neurodiverse people has given us an edge, says AirGate CEO Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada