https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-bmw-cars-could-be-hacked-british-university-fined-for-a-hack-and-more/405556
Cyber Security Today: BMW cars could be hacked, British university fined for a hack, and more | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today: BMW cars could be hacked, British university fined for a hack, and more Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: May 25th, 2018 BMW cars could be attacked, a British university fined for a hack and two-factor authentication comes to Firefox. We’re bringing you the latest cyber security news Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Friday, March 25. To hear the podcast, press play here: The vehicles you buy increasingly come with wireless Internet connectivity, not only for accident assistance and the entertainment system but also for diagnostics on electronic control units that link to almost every component. Are they hackable if not designed right? You bet. The latest discovery was made by Chinese security researchers, who found more than a dozen vulnerabilities in the onboard compute units of BMW cars. According to The Hacker News, some of the bugs might allow someone to remotely take control of the car. Before you panic, though, two things: Some bugs would need an attacker to first hack into the cellar network. Others would need an attacker to get into the car and plug a compromised USB stick into a maintenance port. BMW has already started rolling out patches for the vulnerabilities to car owners. But it’s a reminder to car makers that cyber security has to be as important as mechanical and electronic reliability. I hope listeners know about the importance of activating two-step, or two-factor, authentication on important applications that need logins. Those who use the Firefox browser now can activate two-step authentication to protect their Firefox accounts. If someone tries to log into your account from an unfamiliar device, you’ll be sent a message asking you to enter a verification code from an app that’s on your phone to prove that it’s really you. If you haven’t tried logging in, that’s how you’ll know you’re being attacked. Authentication apps for this are called Google Authenticator, Authy 2-Factor Authentication and Duo Mobile. A British university has been fined the equivalent of $206,000 after an old Web site built for a conference in 2004 that held sensitive papers of presenters was hacked. Why? Because it wasn’t updated with security patches. Nine years later attackers got in and got away with names, addresses, phone numbers, and email addresses of approximately 20,000 students, staff and others, as well as personal health information of some. The stolen data was then publicly posted. Lesson for managers: You’ve got to keep on top of every Web site people under your control create. And finally, today many businesses around the world are facing tougher privacy laws now that the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation, more commonly called GDPR, has come into effect. The philosophy of GDPR is you own your personal data, not a business. If you’re an EU resident you can demand a company correct your data, delete it or let you take it to a competitor. It’s a good idea. Ask if companies you deal with let you do that. Think about it if they say no. For more GDPR news stories at IT World Canada, click here Happy Memorial Day weekend to our listeners in the U.S. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Play, or add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing. Thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Hashtag Trending - Car2Go pulls out of Toronto; New details emerge about pedestrian killed by Uber’s self-driving car; Elon Musk bashes media, suggests media credibility check Round-trip car sharing firms remain confident about Toronto operations after Car2Go exit About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada