https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/data-can-make-or-break-an-organization/414910
Data can make or break an organization | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Data can make or break an organization Cindy Baker @itworldca Published: February 7th, 2019 The ability to unlock the power of data will be a major factor impacting a company’s future success, say CIOs. The trouble is, that’s also one of their biggest challenges. In the 2018 Canadian CIO Census, almost 30 per cent of those surveyed said that making data actionable is a top priority, up from 17 per cent in 2017. But they admit that the key to opening that door isn’t easy. Download: Meeting The Data Challenge: Insights from IT Leaders in Four Sectors “We see data as a great idea but we struggle with monetizing it,” said Corey Cox, Vice-President of Information Systems, Tandet Group, said in a panel discussion at the Canadian CIO Summit. “We hear so many platitudes about data,” added Jim Love, ITWC CIO and Chief Digital Officer. “Some say it’s the new oil. But we don’t need platitudes — we need real ways to extract the value from our data.” Turning platitudes into action To gain an edge in the volatile gold mining industry, companies need to find ways to do things differently, said Joe AbiDaoud, Vice President of Information Technology for Yamana Gold. The effective use of data is critical. The key is to identify use cases that will drive your business forward, he said. For example, Yamana Gold is using the data from sensors to track the location of equipment in underground mines as workers move it so they can maximize the productivity of each shift. Similarly, Cox described a situation where a customer complained about spending too much time on the repair and maintenance of one piece of equipment. “A direct expense scenario suggested there was nothing out of line,” he said. But when they dug deeper, a data analysis pinpointed the problem. It wasn’t that the equipment broke down more often, but that supplier took too long to fix it. As a result, the company was able to get compensation and change the supplier’s procedures. “People need to understand the implications of not having data in the same way they understand what it’s like not to have money,” said Cox. Start by improving processes Abidaoud advised that businesses should start with small projects that can show the value of data, and to engage business managers. “It’s important to look for opportunities to either enhance the process or make better decisions around it,” he said. It’s vital, because as Cox said, “Data is driving every decision made today.” To learn more about how to start getting more value from your data, see: “Meeting the Data Challenge: Insights from IT Leaders in Four Sectors.” Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech Cogeco Peer 1, data analytics, digital transformationn How to clean a keyboard Hashtag Trending - Flickr deleting photos; Spotify buys podcasters; New period emoji About Cindy Baker Cindy Baker has over 20 years of experience in IT-related fields in the public and private sectors, as a lawyer and strategic advisor. She is a former broadcast journalist, currently working as a consultant, freelance writer and editor. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Landing that dream data scientist position Ottawa Hospital announces partnership to democratize its data throughout the organization Avoiding CIO failure in oil and gas AI isn’t great at solving problems, and other surprising truths discussed by experts at Brace for Impact event Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada