https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/twitter-says-it-will-no-longer-accept-political-advertising-on-its-platform/423433
Twitter says it will no longer accept political advertising on its platform | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Education Leadership Public Sector Twitter says it will no longer accept political advertising on its platform Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: October 30th, 2019 Twitter chief executive officer Jack Dorsey made a surprise announcement this afternoon, telling the world on Twitter that the social media site is stopping all political advertising on its platform. We’ve made the decision to stop all political advertising on Twitter globally. We believe political message reach should be earned, not bought. Why? A few reasons…🧵 — jack 🌍🌏🌎 (@jack) October 30, 2019 “While internet advertising is incredibly powerful and very effective for commercial advertisers, that power brings significant risks to politics, where it can be used to influence votes to affect the lives of millions,” Dorsey wrote in a Twitter thread Oct. 30. He concluded by saying, “This isn’t about free expression. This is about paying for reach. And paying to increase the reach of political speech has significant ramifications that today’s democratic infrastructure may not be prepared to handle. It’s worth stepping back in order to address.” As of this article’s publication, Dorsey’s thread on the announcement has been retweeted more than 20,000 times. Meanwhile, Twitter’s rival Facebook continues to face all kinds of controversy over its decision to allow misinformation in political advertising, something Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg recently confirmed during a U.S. Senate hearing earlier this month. That news was met with backlash from roughly 250 Facebook workers who penned a letter to CEO Mark Zuckerberg objecting to the notion that politicians get free rein in what information they distribute on the platform. Dorsey says Twitter will share its “final policy” by Nov. 15, with enforcement of those rules beginning the week after. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Education, Leadership, Public Sector advertising, twitter Ontario Science Centre suffers data breach, exposes 174,000 names and addresses TD Bank opens new operations hub in Toronto About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Unlimited sick days for Amazon workers; Twitter forcing employees to work from home; U.S. bill threatens privacy Social media reacts to Windows 7 end of life Twitter says bugs in ad system led to data leaks Facebook the target of international lawmakers at Ottawa hearing Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada