https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/is-google-going-to-offer-phone-plans-next/8847
Is Google going to offer phone plans next? | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Software Is Google going to offer phone plans next? Nancy Gohring @itworldca Published: May 23rd, 2007 All the rumors about a Google phone may be just slightly off. Rather than sell a mobile handset, Google Inc. might instead offer wireless service. A Google executive on Tuesday said that the company is considering trying to win spectrum in an upcoming Federal Communications Commission auction. “We have not ruled in or out participating in the auction as a licensee,” said Richard Whitt, Washington, D.C. telecom and media counsel for Google. He was referring to the FCC auction of wireless spectrum in the 700MHz band expected to happen next year. The frequency has been used by television broadcasters but is becoming available as part of the transition to digital television. The 700MHz spectrum is attractive because it can carry signals for long distances, potentially reducing the costs of building a network. Whitt didn’t reveal more details about what Google would do with the spectrum if it decided to enter the auction and if it managed to win. With spectrum in hand, Google could build a network and offer wireless services directly to users. Google could also potentially let other service providers use the spectrum. On Monday, Google filed a letter with the FCC asking the agency to allow winners of the spectrum to create an auction system that would let third parties bid against each other for the right to use the spectrum. The system could be much like AdWords, Google’s offering that lets companies bid against each other in order to display online advertising tied to search terms. “Whether or not we do get involved [in the auction], we see some value in creating these kinds of platforms,” Whitt said. The company is interested in talking with spectrum winners about possibly developing the AdWords-like system for them, he said. Like other Internet technology companies including Yahoo Inc. and Microsoft Corp., Google has shown increasing interest recently in the mobile Internet. The companies believe that advertising on the mobile Internet could generate significant revenue streams. However, Google has complained about the difficulty of working with operators, which control the wireless networks, and faces the challenge of developing products for the very wide array of different phone software platforms. Operating its own network could allow Google to offer the types of services it wants to. Rumors have been circulating that Google, like Apple Inc., may be developing a wireless phone. When asked about a Google phone recently, the company said it doesn’t comment on rumors. Software Mobile Internet, television, wireless service Ways to attract young people to IT careers Does this 'maddog' look like a Luddite to you? Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Complaints continued to rise in 2018, wireless service is biggest culprit, according to CCTS How video has evolved in the past five years Eight winners of the 2015 CES Innovation Awards Montreal Metro fires up subway mobile wireless service Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada