https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-twitter-wont-ban-white-supremacists-amazons-robo-firing-ubc-engineers-develop-anti-ice-windshield-material/417371
Hashtag Trending – Twitter won't ban white supremacists; Amazon's robo-firing; UBC engineers develop anti-ice windshield material | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Twitter won’t ban white supremacists; Amazon’s robo-firing; UBC engineers develop anti-ice windshield material Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: April 29th, 2019 Twitter won’t ban white supremacists for fear of hurting Republican politicians; automated firing systems in place at Amazon; Engineers at UBC develop anti-ice windshield material An employee of Twitter has spoken out about why they have not put in place an algorithm to suppress white supremacists and other extremists, and the story is trending on Reddit. The unidentified employee says that during a recent meeting someone brought up this issue but was told that they would not implement such an alogorithm for fear of affecting innocent accounts. Following the meeting, someone in an AI-related department told this employee that the real reason was that they were afraid the algorithm would also ban Republican politicians and Twitter has already come under fire recently for what some are calling a bias against conservative politicians. Sticking with stories trending on Reddit, we find a story about the conditions Amazon has its warehouse workers in and exactly how deep automation has affected them and how they are monitored. Much has already been said of the ruthless automated monitoring system that Amazon uses to track its employees and ensure optimal efficiency. But now documents have leaked that state that the automated tracking system can actually fire employees automatically without any input from management. Although the documents do also point out that these terminations can be appealed by either the employee or management. Either way, pretty eerie stuff! Hopping over to Google Trends, and we find a story all Canadians appreciate. As we all know in the Great White North, winter can disrupt even something as simple as leaving your house. Nobody likes scraping ice off their car. But there may be a solution in sight! Researchers from the University of British Columbia have developed a material that can be sprayed onto windshields that reduces the friction so that you can either just easily wipe away the ice, or it will fall off of its own weight. For all of you who know the pain of scraping ice in the cold, that should sound brrrr-illiant to you. Get it? Brrrr like shivering? Ah, nevermind! Careers Amazon, hashtag trending, podcasts, twitter Cyber Security Today: Warning about connected devices, cyber advice for manufacturers and find fake celebrities TD Bank chooses Microsoft Azure, says hyperscalers have ‘upped their game’ About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada