https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/dell-technologies-sells-rsa-to-symphony-technology-group-consortium-for-2-075-billion/427444
Dell Technologies sells RSA to Symphony Technology Group consortium for over $2 billion | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. A crowd gathers for a keynote during the 2019 RSA Conference. File photo by Howard Solomon Leadership Privacy & Security Dell Technologies sells RSA to Symphony Technology Group consortium for over $2 billion Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: February 18th, 2020 For now, it’s business as usual, but Dell Technologies today announced that it was selling its cybersecurity arm RSA for $2.075 billion to a consortium of investors led by Symphony Technology Group, a deal that’s expected to close in six to nine months. RSA became part of the Dell Technologies family after the $67 billion acquisition deal that saw Dell Technologies acquire EMC in 2015. Seeking to become an end-to-end solutions provider, the hardware maker suddenly had three different endpoint security products, as well as new virtualization and storage capabilities. Dell reportedly began the search for a buyer in December 2019, according to PE Hub. RSA’s channel partners include value-added resellers, system integrators, consulting firms and distributors, and the company has more than 30,000 customers globally, according to its website. The consortium of investors led by Symphony Technology Group, which includes the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board and AlpInvest Partners, is the “right custodian” to help achieve RSA’s goals, Dell Technology’s chief operating officer and vice chairman Jeff Clarke, wrote in a blog post announcing the deal. “In determining the best long-term future for RSA, we sought a partner that was enthusiastic about RSA’s mission, committed to its customer and partner base, and interested in maximizing the power of RSA’s talent, experience, and tremendous growth potential,” he wrote. For Bell, it means “greater flexibility to focus on integrated innovation across Dell Technologies…” Clarke explained. RSA president Rohit Ghai didn’t add much to the announcement, and in a separate blog post echoed Clarke’s comments. “Symphony Technology Group fully supports our vision, and with a more independent configuration, we expect to be in an even better position to accelerate innovation, ensure customer success with our portfolio of on-prem and cloud solutions, and expand opportunities for our partner ecosystem.” Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership, Privacy & Security Dell, postmedia, RSA Information belonging to 69,000 Phoenix payees sent to wrong department Cyber Security Today - Ring security cameras may not help police, VPNs at risk and beware of fake Epic Games launchers About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada