https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/not-possible-to-latch-on-all-to-thse-firms-but-its-likely-you-want-one-or-two-represented-in-your-portfolio/418675
Hashtag Trending – Apple WWDC; Major outages for Google; Doctors battles fake news | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Apple WWDC; Major outages for Google; Doctors battles fake news Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: June 4th, 2019 News from Apple’s developer conference, major outages reported for YouTube, Google and Snapchat, and doctors rally to stomp out fake news on social media. Apple’s product announcements from its annual World Wide Developers Conference in San Jose, which kicked off yesterday, is trending on Twitter. New on the hardware front is the revamped Mac Pro – which social media has been quick to point out that it looks like a cheese grater – features an immense 28 core processor and up to two dual-GPU Radeon Vega graphics cards. Also new is the Pro Display XDR, a 32”, 6K Retina display that supports full 10 bit color depth and up to 1,600 nit peak brightness. Alongside the iPad OS and OS X Catalina unveiling, you can say goodbye to iTunes. Apple says it’s splitting iTunes into Apple Music, Apple Podcasts, and Apple TV. On LinkedIn, thousands of users are commenting on the recently reported outages experienced by several sites and services, including YouTube, Google and Snapchat. The outages Sunday, believed to have been caused by a Google Cloud issue, affected the East Coast of the US, but users across Europe have also reported trouble accessing certain services. Reporting from the Verge says Google blames “high levels of network congestion in the eastern USA” for the issues experienced on the weekend. As of this recording, Google has resolved the outages, which according to its own G Suite Status dashboard showed problems with almost every single Google web service at one point or another. Down Detector listed YouTube outage reports in a number of countries as well. And lastly trending on Reddit – a Harvard-trained gastroenterologist is using his social media talents to develop an antidote for fake news. Drowning out false content with tweets, photos and posts from medical experts that average Americans can relate to, are the first steps toward addressing what Austin Chiang describes as the “biggest crisis we have right now in health care.” In an interview with CNBC, Chiang points out how doctors were hesitant to build followings on social media, and preferred academic journals. But with millions of people tuning in to anti-vaccination content, or promoting the use of industrial-strength bleach to eliminate autism for children, Chiang says it was time to take action. He’s now recruiting an army of physicians, nurses, patient advocates, and other health professionals to get online. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Careers hashtag trending, LinkedIn, podcasts, Reddit Apple announces new Mac Pro at WWDC 2019 Apple wants you to buy its $999 monitor stand, but it's not the only option About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada