https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canadian-government-calls-for-innovative-solution-proposals-for-signature-matching-software/426644
Canadian Government calls for innovative solution proposals for signature matching software | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Public Sector Software Canadian Government calls for innovative solution proposals for signature matching software Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: January 29th, 2020 The Government of Canada is looking for a new software solution for signature matching and it is turning to the public for proposals through the Innovative Solutions Canada Challenge Stream. In its press release, the Government said it is “seeking to build a system that would evaluate the pattern matching signatures in insecure environments without revealing the signatures themselves or the portions of the corpus matching those signatures.” “This is a small business-friendly government that is working hard to reduce red tape and make it easier for Canadian small business owners to start-up, scale-up, and access new markets. Innovative Solutions Canada is a fantastic program that uses government procurement to help small businesses develop and then commercialize their innovations,” Mary Ng, the minister of small business, export promotion, and international trade, said in the release. “These are worthy, new challenges, and I can’t wait to see the ideas from Canadian small businesses. When small businesses in communities across the country succeed, our economy grows and middle-class jobs are created.” Successful proposals will be awarded up to $150,000 to develop a proof of feasibility. If they are then approved into the next phase, they could receive up to $1,000,000 to develop a prototype. Public Sector, Software Government of Canada From ransomware infections to cryptomining scams, fake factory honeypot provides lessons for CISOs Cyber Security Today - Applications accused of harvesting user data, NFL teams boot social media security and hacking gang members arrested About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Canada can learn from U.S. cyber report, says expert SAP selected by government to test a replacement for Phoenix pay system Group to create Canadian cyber standards for electricity sector IoT devices Movement starts to have Canada declare Sept. 1 as International Women in Cyber Day Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada