https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/adobe-to-deactivate-all-user-accounts-in-venezuela/422612
Adobe to deactivate all user accounts in Venezuela | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Software Adobe to deactivate all user accounts in Venezuela Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: October 8th, 2019 To comply with an executive order issued by the U.S. government, Adobe is deactivating all accounts in Venezuela. The computer software company will no longer be providing users access to services and software, including free ones, or allowing users to make any new transactions or purchases. The Executive Order 13884, issued Aug. 5, 2019, prohibits nearly all types of transaction between the U.S. users, be it individuals, companies, or entities, in Venezuela. Since the order does not have an expiration date, the decision to overrule it lies solely in the hands of the U.S. Government. “We will continue to monitor developments closely and will make every effort to restore services to Venezuela as soon as it is legally permissible to do so,” Adobe wrote on its website. The company will not be issuing refunds to any of these users. “We are unable to issue refunds. Executive order 13884, orders the cessation of all activity with the entities including no sales, service, support, refunds, credits, etc.,” reads the page. Users have until Oct. 28, 2019 to download any content stored in their respective Adobe accounts. Depending on the plan they are a part of and the app that they are using, users can download their files or content from the following four cloud locations: Creative Cloud, Lightroom, Document Cloud, and Adobe Spark. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace, Software Adobe, B2B managed services, business software, client software, enterprise software, Free Software Study suggests pace of cyber attacks on Canadian firms increasing What is the Microsoft SQ1 chip? Surface Pro X's secret explained About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Dell’s UltraSharp 27 4K PremierColor Monitor now available in Canada ITWC partners with SoftwareReviews.com – because buying enterprise software should be more like deciding where to eat for dinner Patches need to be installed for EMC, VMware, Adobe Flash and a WordPress plugin Hashtag Trending – Apple’s latest acqui-hire; GoPro deal with Adobe; China’s surveillance plans for Google Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada