https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/student-survey-reveals-95-of-students-feel-mandatory-online-courses-are-a-bad-idea/421673
Student survey reveals 95% of students feel mandatory online courses are a bad idea | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Education Public Sector Survey reveals 95% of students feel mandatory online courses are a bad idea Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: September 10th, 2019 A new survey from the Ontario Student Trustees’ Association (OSTA-AECO) revealed that 95 per cent of the 6087 students surveyed disapprove of the e-learning mandate introduced by the provincial government back in March. Beginning in 2020 all high school students in Ontario will be required to complete four e-learning courses to earn their high school diploma. Clare Brett, the chair of the department of curriculum, teaching, and learning at the University of Toronto, who has studied e-learning extensively, said that a well carried out plan for e-learning can be an immensely valuable tool. “There are learning outcomes for students in well-designed courses that are as good, if not better, than regular courses. It’s no longer the thing that people used to sort of talk about it as just no good,” said Brett in an interview with IT World Canada. “We do some really good group space things, class-based things, where there is discussion and presentation that you can use different modalities for. In that kind of more enriched environment, I think that there’s a lot of learning that can go on, and it can be very effective.” But on the other hand, a rushed adoption or a lack of research will greatly diminish e-learning’s impact on a student’s education, indicated Brett. E-learning courses require quite a lot of preparation and may not be the time-saver and money-saver the government seems to think they are. “Teachers need to be really aware of the differences between an online space and a face-to-face classroom and how you modify the curriculum and the kinds of experiences that you create,” said Brett. “Instructions have to be super clear. You really have to organize materials in very careful ways.” Brett’s concerns were reflected in the student survey. Roughly 25 per cent of students indicated that they had a hard time contacting their e-learning teacher when needed, and 35 per cent said that they experience difficulties in using the e-learning software. Thirty per cent said they had difficulty understanding the lessons, and 60 per cent said their learning needs were not accommodated. And it’s that last concern that has Brett very worried, she said. Ontario has such a diverse population with diverse learning needs, and 60 per cent is not a good sign. “There is no one size fits all for education. It’s a scary kind of expectation and I worry about who will not succeed and what will happen to those people. I think it’s very unfair to put our young people in such a risky situation.” Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Education, Public Sector e-learning, education, Ontario Apple launches iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro, and iPhone 11 Pro Max Hashtag Trending - Apple releases iPhone 11 Pros; autonomous Toronto shuttles; Amazon worker climate strike About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Year Zero I A Reimagination of the Future with Sophia Fairweather, One of Canada’s Brightest Young Digital Luminaries TekSavvy partners with Ericsson to upgrade broadband for over 30,000 households in southwestern Ontario Applications for free IT career training courses closing soon Ontario energy regulator dims plan to sell smart meter data Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada