https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/td-launches-self-serve-block-features-for-credit-cards/422007
TD launches self-serve block features for credit cards | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Mobility Privacy & Security TD launches self-serve block features for credit cards Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: September 19th, 2019 The Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) has announced a new set of control features for all TD Visa consumer credit cards in Canada, including the ability to temporarily block all access to the account and the ability to block in-person international charges. To block access to the account, users must be logged on to the TD mobile banking app. In the case of a lost card, users can ease the stress of the situation by disabling the card until it can be located or replaced, depending on the end result. When the feature is enabled, no new purchases can be made with the card or a digital wallet; although pre-authorized payments and deposits will still go through. Once the situation has been resolved, the feature can simply be turned off, restoring the card to its normal functionality. The international charge block capability is the first of its kind in Canada, according to TD. “Card controls can help our customers feel confident that their credit cards won’t be misused, while also minimizing the inconvenience of canceling or replacing a card if it’s temporarily misplaced,” says Katy Boshart, SVP, Canadian Credit Cards, TD. “In addition, our new international block feature provides even greater security – giving TD credit cardholders the ability to prevent unauthorized access to their card at international, in-person points of sale, providing additional peace of mind.” Additionally, TD customers also have access to a couple more security features. You can sign up for TD Fraud Alerts to receive a notification via text if TD notices any unusual account activity. The TD MySpend tool allows you to receive notification of all account activity in real-time to keep an eye out for unusual activity yourself. Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility, Privacy & Security TD, TD Bank Botnet takes advantage of weak passwords, poorly-patched systems: report Canadian immigrant providing free IT career training across the country About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Collision 2019: TD calls for banks to collaborate more with fintech startups on AI solutions TD Bank chooses Microsoft Azure, says hyperscalers have ‘upped their game’ Toronto’s top 10 most desirable brands for tech workers TD Bank creates AI-powered Spotify playlist to win contest Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada