https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-instant-messaging-app-attack-retired-crooks-and-trouble-with-ringcentral/420028
Cyber Security Today – Instant messaging app attack, retired crooks and trouble with RingCentral | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – Instant messaging app attack, retired crooks and trouble with RingCentral Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: July 17th, 2019 Sneaky instant messaging apps attack, has this gang retired and another video conferencing app with trouble. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Wednesday July 17th. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanda.com. Do you use What’sApp or Telegram for messaging on an Android device? Well, security company Symantec has discovered a flaw that may allow an attacker to modify documents, audio files, photos and videos sent through these services. It can happen if files are stored on an SD card on the device instead of in the internal storage and an attacker can hack your device. So an invoice you get might be changed; so could an audio message from your boss. To protect yourself, those using messaging apps should make sure attached files are stored internally. Or you could encrypt files stored externally, like on SD cards. Meanwhile application developers should use techniques to verify that files haven’t been tampered with after they’ve been stored. We all look forward to retiring after stockpiling a bunch of cash. Criminals allegedly dream, too. That apparently was behind the announcement in May by the person or persons behind a strain of ransomware called GandCrab that they were calling it quits after allegedly pulling in $2 billion. But security reporter Brian Krebs and others have their doubts. In a column this week Krebs says there’s evidence the gang has merely switched to a more exclusive version of renting ransomware to others called ransomware as a service. The suggestion is the so-called retirement is just a way of covering their tracks. The new way of doing business is an attempt to keep police from finding them. Last week I told you about a vulnerability in the Mac version of the Zoom video conferencing app used by many businesses. Well, the same vulnerability is also in the RingCentral video-conferencing application. That’s because is based on the Zoom technology. RingCentral and Apple have issued patches that remove a troublesome piece of software on your Macs. However, if you’ve deleted RingCentral from your machine that problem piece of software will still be there. If you’re worried about being victimized, contact an expert for advice. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Hashtag Trending - Office 365 banned in Germany; kids want to be YouTubers; Qualcomm’s new chipset Mastercard and Zoho expand partnership to provide tools on a global scale About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada