https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/microsoft-commits-to-quantum-computing-software-support/396935
Microsoft commits to quantum computing software support | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Microsoft commits to quantum computing software support Paolo Del Nibletto @PaoloCDN Published: September 25th, 2017 Microsoft took a stab at quantum computing today. At the Microsoft Envision/Inspire conference, more than 25,000 customers attended to hear about the creation of a new programming language by the software giant to optimize scalable quantum computers. Microsoft plans for the deep integration of the programming language into Visual Studio. Microsoft also had a call to action looking for developers. Microsoft is providing quantum tools at no charge by year’s end and is asking the developer community to join it by signing up at www.microsoft.com/quantum. CEO Satya Nadella also revealed to the audience at the Microsoft Envision/Inspire conference his top three trends. They are: Artificial Intelligence; Mixed Reality solutions involving virtual and augment reality; and Quantum computing. The first two trends have been well documented, but quantum computing is a new wrinkle for Microsoft. Nadella said that all three trends will cut across all Microsoft solution areas. Microsoft revealed at the 2017 Envision/Inspire conference in Orlando that it has been investing in quantum computing for a decade. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella at the Inspire conference. Company spokesperson Frank X. Shaw said that the investments started from silicon and went all the way up to software of the quantum computing stack. As recently as last November, Microsoft publicly stated it was working on a scalable quantum computer using a technology called topological qubit. The company even put Todd Holmdahl, its corporate vice president, in charge of the project. Holmdahl, you might recall, developed the Xbox, Kinect, and the HoloLens. Holmdahl said, in November of last year, that quantum computing was reaching an inflection point and the next step was to engineer a product. Holmdahl said the quantum project has risk, but it could also make a huge impact in the world. Quantum Computing made headlines last year when Prime Minister Justin Trudeau gave an accurate explanation of it during a press conference at the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics in Waterloo. A video of his explanation went viral and Microsoft senior spokesperson Shaw even referenced it during his briefing with reporters before the Microsoft Envision/Inspire conference. Trudeau said “A regular computer bit is either a one or a zero, either on or off. A quantum state can be much more complex than that, because as we know, things can be both particle and wave at the same time and the uncertainty around quantum states allows us to encode more information into a much smaller computer.” The promise of quantum computing means that machines with quantum intelligence will be able to calculate things that humans are not capable of today. It can also do calculations that would take centuries to do in a matter of seconds. Microsoft is not the only vendor in the quantum game. IBM and Google announced products for quantum computing. IBM showed a quantum computer chip made of 17 superconducting qubits. But this chip is only scratching the surface of quantum computing. Called IBM Q, it’s Big Blue’s first attempt at a commercial quantum computer. Google is trying to use quantum computing to help its autonomous car recognize landmarks. According to IBM, quantum computers will be able to deliver solutions to important problems where patterns cannot be found and the number of possibilities that you need to explore to get to the answer are too enormous ever to be processed by classical computers. A prototype of a Quantum Computer Chip Please note that a qubit is short for a quantum bit or unit of quantum information. According to Wikipedia, a qubit is a two-state quantum-mechanical system, such as the polarization of a single photon: here the two states are vertical polarization and horizontal polarization. What can you do with quantum computing? Lockheed Martin hopes to make safer airplane using quantum technology. It has also been reported that quantum computing will be able to help people view distant planets and better analyze the data we get from large telescopes such as Hubble. Maybe even detect cancer faster. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure Microsoft, quantum computing, Satya Nadella How a CISO can learn to talk effectively to a board Ransomware roundup: Sept. 30 DDoS threat circulating About Paolo Del Nibletto Editor of Computer Dealer News, covering Canada's IT channel community. Follow Follow @PaoloCDN on Twitter Join Paolo Del Nibletto on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Canadian expert says Honeywell’s quantum computer could be ‘remarkable’ Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada