https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/mwc-2020-in-barcelona-officially-cancelled-by-event-organizers/427260
MWC 2020 in Barcelona officially cancelled by event organizers | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by Mimadeo | Getty Images Emerging Tech Mobility MWC 2020 in Barcelona officially cancelled by event organizers Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: February 12th, 2020 This story has been updated to include comments from Cisco. With files from Howard Solomon Amid concerns of the coronavirus, event organizers have officially cancelled this year’s Mobile World Congress event. Organized by the GSM Association (GSMA) and set to take place in Barcelona from February 24 to February 27, the event had been in a state of uncertainty for some time with many of the major vendors already pulling out. The GSMA released an official statement from its CEO explaining their rationale for the decision. “With due regard to the safe and healthy environment in Barcelona and the host country today, the GSMA has cancelled MWC Barcelona 2020 because the global concern regarding the coronavirus outbreak, travel concern and other circumstances, make it impossible for the GSMA to hold the event,” said John Hoffman in his statement. “The Host City Parties respect and understand this decision. The GSMA and the Host City Parties will continue to be working in unison and supporting each other for MWC Barcelona 2021 and future editions. Our sympathies at this time are with those affected in China, and all around the world.” Shortly before the official cancellation, Barcelona’s mayor Ada Colau said that the city was “perfectly prepared” for Mobile World Congress to take place and that there was “no reason whatsoever” to apply emergency measures, according to a story from Spanish outlet La Vanguardia. Meanwhile on Wednesday, after canceling its appearance at Mobile World Congress, Cisco Systems decided to drop out of its own plans to bring four reporters from a number of countries to San Francisco to cover Cisco events in and around this month’s annual RSA Conference. A reporter from IT World Canada was one of those invited to hear officials speak at the conference, interview senior staff as well as cover a day-long series of security-related presentations on the sidelines of the conference. Other reporters were from Brazil and Australia. Those reporters have been told the trip was off due to concerns about the current outbreak of what is now officially called the COVID-19 virus. Cisco staff will still speak at the conference and man its trade show exhibit. “We are truly disappointed that we can no longer host you this year, however, we believe it is the right decision, out of an abundance of caution, given the current circumstances,” Briar Wells, a Cisco Canada spokesperson said in an email to IT World Canada. ‘We are monitoring the RSA Conference guidance closely. At present, this does not impact Cisco’s participation as an exhibitor at the event.” But in an interview Thursday she noted an upcoming Cisco Live customer conference in Australia was canceled. RSA Conference organizers have given no public indication many companies are pulling out. Six of nine companies from China have so far canceled due to travel restrictions, it said. As of Tuesday, the number of individuals who canceled their registration due to travel restrictions to the U.S. “is approximately 0.2 percent of the total number of expected attendees.” It isn’t clear how many that is. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Mobility coronavirus, Mobile World Congress, mwc, MWC 2020 Mitacs placing 400 interns with ENCQOR 5G network projects Hashtag Trending - MWC 2020 canceled, U.S. accuses Huawei of spying, Youtube looking to gatekeep streaming About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Insulating your business from COVID-19 impacts TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again COVID-19: Provincial health hotlines and telehealth options A quick guide for businesses navigating Canada’s COVID-19 Economic Response Plan Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada