https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-big-hack-of-canvas-graphics-site-insurer-leaves-documents-open-ransomware-going-after-databases/418484
Cyber Security Today: Big hack of Canvas graphics site, insurer leaves documents open, ransomware going after databases | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today: Big hack of Canvas graphics site, insurer leaves documents open, ransomware going after databases Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: May 29th, 2019 Big hack of Canvas graphics site, insurer leaves documents open and ransomware going after databases. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Wednesday May 29th. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanda.com. To hear the podcast, click on the arrow below: One of the world’s most prolific hackers has apparently struck again. A person or group calling themselves GnosticPlayers says they have stolen data of 138 million users of an online graphics site called Canvas. The ZDNet news service says it verified at least some of the stolen data. Canvas has acknowledged being hacked. Stolen data included customer usernames, real names, email addresses, and city and country information and passwords. However, those passwords were scrambled and well protected. Canvas owns the stock images sites Pexels and Pixabay, but apparently they were not hacked. Since February GnosticPlayers has taken credit for putting up for sale stolen data of 932 million users. Companies are still not doing enough to protect themselves or their partners from being hacked. Here’s another example: A few days ago security reporter Brian Krebs reported that the web site of a huge U.S. real estate title insurance company called First American Financial Corp. wasn’t secured right. As a result anyone could have seen millions of documents with personal information relating to mortgage deals going back to 2003. It was an old bungle I’ve reported on before: Companies that make documents available on the Internet give them a number that can be seen in a browser’s address. If you change one digit in the number, you can see another document, and keep on going. It isn’t known if criminals knew about the First American flaw. There are ways to prevent this from happening by restricting who can see documents and by not using a numbered document system. Sometimes companies get hit with ransomware on desktop computers through email. However, IT staff should note that attacks can be spread through attacks on servers. Security vendor Sophos recently discovered a campaign that goes after vulnerable MySQL databases that are open to the Internet. The infected database then automatically downloads a copy of the ransomware. Sophos thinks 800 copies of the ransomware were downloaded in five days. So database administrators, you’ve been warned. Finally, this week I’m covering parliamentary hearings in Canada of the International Grand Committee on Democracy, Big Data and Privacy. It spent a lot of Tuesday grilling officials from Google, Facebook and Twitter. Hard to summarize it all in a short podcast, but if you go to ITWorldCanada.com you’ll find my news stories. The companies were given a rough ride and you might find their answers interesting. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Facebook the target of international lawmakers at Ottawa hearing Consumer mobility is 5G's first big use case, says Nokia About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada