https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/wi-fi-alliance-officially-announces-wi-fi-6-certification/421869
Wi-Fi Alliance officially announces Wi-Fi 6 certification | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Wi-Fi Alliance officially announces Wi-Fi 6 certification Tom Li @itworldca Published: September 16th, 2019 Wi-Fi Alliance, a group formed by numerous tech companies overseeing Wi-Fi’s standardization, has launched the Wi-Fi Certified 6 certification program, meaning manufacturers that meet its criterias get to put an important badge on their products’ packaging. Wi-Fi 6, officially named as the 802.11ax standard by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), is the next chapter in wireless local area networks. Compared to Wi-Fi 5 (known as the IEEE 802.11ac standard), Wi-Fi 6 has made specific amendments to extend its range, provide higher bandwidth, improve energy use, and massively increase access. Its features can be scaled for home use or congested areas like concerts and sporting events. Although it shares many similarities to 5G, Wi-Fi 6 is strictly geared towards local area networks. In other words, 5G addresses the entire communication stack, whereas Wi-Fi only applies to the connection between the users and local access points like routers. The new Wi-Fi Alliance certification, launched on Monday, guarantees that compliant devices meet the full IEEE 801.11ax standard out of the box. Devices without the certification may require firmware updates in order to adhere to the finalized version. Prior to the certification, Wi-Fi 6 enabled devices were based on a draft of the IEEE 802.11ax specification. Although the IEEE expects to release the official 802.11ax specification by the year’s end, its development has essentially concluded in late 2018. As such, vendors including Qualcomm, Intel, and Broadcomm have been releasing pre-standard Wi-Fi 6 devices for nearly a year. The Samsung Galaxy Note 10 is the first smartphone to earn the new certification. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure 802.11ax, Communications, postmedia, Wi-Fi, Wi-Fi Alliance, wireless Microsoft's Exchange Server 2010 has its end of support pushed back by nine months Hashtag Trending - iPhone update catching sketchy apps; Tech companies dying out?; No more need to cancel subscriptions About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada