https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/are-you-ready-for-the-new-anti-money-laundering-rules/388191
Are you ready for the new anti-money laundering rules? | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Public Sector Are you ready for the new anti-money laundering rules? Cindy Baker @itworldca Published: November 7th, 2016 The clock is ticking for financial institutions to comply with new regulations on how they verify the identities of their clients. Financial institutions have until June 17, 2017 to ensure they’re following the new rules introduced under the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) Anti-Terrorist Financing Act (PCMLTFA). “It’s a short time to put a solution in place,” Julia Szadowski, senior legal counsel with Equifax Canada, told participants in an ITWC webinar on the regulatory changes. “It’s a challenge the whole industry is facing and the best way to face it is to be as vigilant and agile as possible.” Watch on demand: Are you ready for the changes in Anti-Money Laundering legislation? What’s new? The new rules are intended to provide more flexibility on the methods regulated organizations use to check the identity of their clients. But, as Szadowski pointed out, a high degree of diligence is still required. Authorities have placed greater emphasis on anti-money laundering efforts in recent years in an effort to cut the flow of money to fraudsters and terrorists. Financial institutions are obliged to make sure that the identifying information on a client’s account application matches with other reliable records. The simplest way to do this is the “single source method”, explained Sinéad Gleason, senior product manager with Equifax. The bank can obtain the client’s credit file from a reporting agency like Equifax to confirm the client’s name, address and date of birth. The credit file must be Canadian and at least three years old. It’s best to have a robust file containing records from a range of sources like credits card, telecom and utility companies, said Gleason. If there is any doubt, or if the credit file is less than three years old, the bank must use the dual source method. Gleason said this approach should be used if, for example, the client uses a post office box for an address, or where the client’s name on the application doesn’t match the credit file exactly. In this case, the bank must refer to information from two independent and reliable sources, such as a credit file and an original document containing identity information. The Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada (FINTRAC) provides guidelines on what constitutes a “reliable” source. “The key thing is that when the regulator comes knocking, they are going to ask you to tell the story of what you did and why you decided that this person was a match,” said Szadowski. Why it Matters: Financial institutions need to be prepared because there are serious consequences for non-compliance with the rules, said Jim Love, ITWC CIO and host of the webinar. They include monetary penalties, criminal sanctions, and more importantly, reputational risk. FINTRAC has imposed fines totaling more than $3.5 million under the Act since December 30, 2008. Financial institutions have a duty to protect their clients, said Szadowski. “The fraudsters are getting more savvy every day and the next victim could be you.” “We all have to think about the big picture,” said Szadowski. “It’s about fighting fraud. You have to be a superhero against fraud, because there’s a real impact on individuals when you don’t do it properly.” Watch the on demand webinar Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Public Sector crime, Equifax, money laundering Toronto is Canada's top city for IT skills, Calgary most expensive Developer conference seeks to avert project failures About Cindy Baker Cindy Baker has over 20 years of experience in IT-related fields in the public and private sectors, as a lawyer and strategic advisor. She is a former broadcast journalist, currently working as a consultant, freelance writer and editor. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content U.S. indicts four Chinese military members for 2017 Equifax breach Study says businesses stand to lose 20% of sales revenue forever after a hack Equifax could pay up to $700 million in proposed U.S. settlement for data breach Federal privacy commissioner critical of Equifax Canada and its parent over huge breach Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada