https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hp-execs-say-dont-get-into-3d-printing-unless-you-meet-this-one-critieria/416247
HP execs say don't get into 3D printing unless you meet this one critieria | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Infrastructure HP execs say don’t get into 3D printing unless you meet this one critieria Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: March 22nd, 2019 As expected, HP Inc. is seeing wider adoption of 3D printing globally, so it’s no surprise partners keep asking Christoph Schell how they can get in on the action. “I get asked this 101 times a day,” the president of 3D printing and digital manufacturing told reporters at HP Reinvent. His answer? “If you know system integration, or if you have a hand in manufacturing, let’s talk. If you don’t have that, let’s not. The learning curve for you to get there is massive.” Christoph Schell, the president of 3D printing and digital manufacturing, has been in the role for four months. He added he’d be happy to cut partners in on a finders fee, but circled back to a point HP execs hammered on during keynote presentations, which is that making money off of 3D printing is not the vendor’s top priority. “The goal here isn’t market share, the goal is transforming industries,” said Dion Weisler, HP president and CEO. He pointed to today’s disruptions in the automotive industry and the shift to electric-powered vehicles, noting 3D printing lends itself perfectly to that scenario because manufacturers and their partners are looking for ways to build light-weight materials without compromising structural integrity. Discrete manufacturing will be the dominant industry for 3D printing, delivering more than half of all worldwide spending throughout the IDC’s 2018-2022 forecast. HP is seeing enormous activity in China and India. IDC says the United States will see the largest spending total in 2019 (nearly $5 billion) followed by Western Europe ($3.6 billion) and China (nearly $2.0 billion). Likely nothing encapsulated HP’s 3D printing philosophy better than a 3D printed extraction shoe, a small component used in the process of producing print heads to get rid of excess material. Typically made from machined aluminum, extraction shoes usually weigh 575 g, cost nearly $450 to produce, and take three to five days to make. With HP Multi Jet Fusion, the component’s weight is reduced by 90 per cent, along with its price tag, which drops down to $18. It also only takes a day or two to produce. HP’s Multi Jet Fusion technology uses fusing agents and powder material to print bigger, more complex and higher-quality objects at blazing speeds. The printer’s large bed allows it to print greater volumes of smaller components. About a third of the world’s energy is consumed in traditional manufacturing, according to HP, and during his keynote presentation this week, Shane Wall, HP’s chief technology officer, said there is an opportunity to influence corporate behaviour around sustainability. “We can save 25 per cent of the total energy use by focusing on…digital manufacturing,” he said, alluding to 3D printing and the software powering design processes. “Digital manufacturing offers us one of the biggest opportunities to make an impact.” Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Infrastructure 3D printing, HP, HP Reinvent, printing Hashtag Trending - Facebook’s password flub; AT&T CEO gets robocalls; the downsides of remote working Hands-on with Microsoft HoloLens 2 About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content COVID-19 is not an excuse for poor ethics with 3D printers Xerox acquires Digitex Canada Intel processor constraint to continue in 2020, says HPE HP Elite Dragonfly hands-on review: style and productivity in one package Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada