https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-u-s-restaurant-chain-hacked-attack-uses-real-document-patch-open-office-suites/414795
Cyber Security Today: U.S. restaurant chain hacked, attack uses real document, patch open office suites | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today: U.S. restaurant chain hacked, attack uses real document, patch open office suites Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: February 6th, 2019 U.S. restaurant chain has been hacked, an attack uses a real document to trip uses and patch open office suites Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Wednesday February 6th. To hear the podcast click on the arrow below: Another U.S. restaurant chain has been hit with a data breach. Huddle House, which has several hundred outlets, said the company that supplies its cash register data system was hacked and some restaurant systems were compromised. As a result personal data from an unknown number of credit or debit cards that were used between August 2017 and the first of this month were stolen. Who could have been victimized? Those who swiped their cards on a card reader, instead of inserting the cards into the bottom of the reader. Remember, if you have a card with a small gold square on it don’t swipe the card. That square is a special chip that protects the data on the card. When you swipe the card, the reader takes personal data off the black stripe on the back of the card. Card readers no longer safely protect data captured that way. And never hand your card over to someone so they take it to the card reader for processing. Have them bring the card reader to you. This week a network equipment company called Cisco Systems put out a blog about a new attack it’s seen against the Tibetan government in exile. That may not mean much to most listeners, but I’m telling you because it’s an example of how a sophisticated cyber attack works. First, the attacker got hold of the email list of the target organization. Then an email with an infected PowerPoint slide show attachment was sent to everyone on the list. The slide show was real — it had been created and publicly posted by the organization two months ago. So those who opened it saw a copy of a genuine document. Unfortunately opening the attachment they also set up a process which secretly sent out an automated message to a server that this computer was compromised. In response, the server automatically sent malware back to to the computer. In this case the malware allowed an attacker to access the victim’s computer. The Microsoft Office vulnerability that allowed this attack had been patched a year ago. This is another example of why patching your software is so important. Speaking of patching, some people and businesses are saving money by using open source productivity suites like LibreOffice or Apache OpenOffice for Windows, Linux or Macs. Well, they’re not immune from being attacked, just like Microsoft Office. A security researcher has discovered a severe vulnerability in the two open source suites. He reported them months ago, and LibreOffice was patched — which is another reason why you should update to the latest version if you haven’t done so already. OpenOffice, which may be vulnerable. hasn’t yet issued a fix. For technical details here’s a link to the researcher’s blog. Finally, Check Point Software is warning Linux server users that a new attack has been spotted. It installs a trojan that can open a backdoor into infected machines. So far its been seen in China and Latin America, but could spread. Linux users, watch for security patches. Here’s a link to more details. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts From Windows 7 to Windows 10: A migration guide Hashtag Trending - Lost password locks out millions in crypto; Suicide prevention on Instagram must improve, says CEO; New York best place for tech About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada