https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/microsoft-to-drop-skype-for-business-online-and-replace-with-teams-in-2021/420487
Microsoft to drop Skype for Business Online and replace with Teams in 2021 | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Mobility Software Microsoft to drop Skype for Business Online and replace with Teams in 2021 Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: July 31st, 2019 Two years after hinting at plans to phase out Skype for Business Online and replace it with Microsoft Teams, Microsoft Corp. made it official this week. Microsoft announced in a blog post that Skype for Business Online will ride off into the sunset on July 31, 2021. “Over the last two years, we’ve worked closely with customers to refine Teams, and we now feel we’re at the point that we can confidently recommend it as an upgrade to all Skype for Business Online customers,” wrote James Skay, Microsoft’s senior product marketing manager in the intelligent communications product marketing group. Until then, current Skype for Business Online users will see no interruption in service, although starting on Sept. 1 of this year, any new Office 365 users will be automatically onboarded to Microsoft Teams without an option to use Skype for Business Online. Skype Consumer service and Skype for Business Server will not be affected by this change. Microsoft Teams was designed to perform all the tasks that can be done on Skype for Business Online, plus some additional features. It allows for chat, video, calling, and document collaboration, all within a single integrated app. Microsoft said it’s going to help existing Skype customers migrate to Teams by offering a set of technical guidance and planning resources, as well as free instructor-led training and FastTrack onboarding assistance for eligible subscriptions. Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility, Software Microsoft, Skype for Business Hashtag Trending - Capital One data breach; banning autoplay videos; Skype for Business ending Cyber Security Today - How to discover if your email has been hacked About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Hiring neurodiverse people has given us an edge, says AirGate CEO Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada