https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cios-lead-digital-transformation-efforts-into-2019-research-shows/413604
CIOs lead digital transformation efforts into 2019, research shows | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation CIOs lead digital transformation efforts into 2019, research shows Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: January 3rd, 2019 Most organizations that identify as pursuing digital transformation are reporting a positive return on investment, and those efforts are most often being led by CIOs, according to a new study from analyst firm Constellation Research Inc. More than two-thirds of respondents said digital transformation projects yielded provable positive ROI, while 23 per cent weren’t sure and another nine per cent said the ROI was not positive. The Constellation Research 2018 Digital Transformation Survey was conducted in the second and third quarters of 2018 and included 81 respondents, mostly based in the U.S., that held purchasing authority for their organizations. Digital transformation, a concept that became widely popularized in 2017 and is a buzzword among many IT vendors, can be broadly defined as the process of taking a business from a legacy model of conducting operations to one that is digital-first. According to the Constellation Research report, released Jan. 1, the top five goals of digital transformation among businesses are: Reaching and engaging customers more effectively (50 per cent) Creating a competitive advantage in the market (46 per cent) Implementing a new, data-driven business model (36 per cent) Increasing revenue (35 per cent) Modernizing legacy IT systems and processes while reducing costs (31 per cent) When it comes to who is leading that digital transformation strategy, CIOs are mostly taking the reins, indicate one-third of respondents. The CEO follows with 23 per cent and a chief digital officer is next at 20 per cent. The responses mark a shift from last year’s Constellation Research Digital Transformation Survey, in which CEOs were most often leading the strategy and CIOs trailed at 19 per cent. (Of course, the sample size isn’t large enough to be statistically significant, so this disparity could be explained just by different survey participants.) The research does support ITWC’s own CanadianCIO Census 2018, which shows that CIOs are highly prioritizing collaborating with lines of business to improve customer service, retention, and acquisition (25 per cent) and identifying new opportunities for cost containment or cost reduction with more efficient delivery of IT services (20 per cent). CanadianCIO Census 2018 What are Canadian CIOs thinking? On-demand webinar Overall, CIOs are taking a much greater stake in their organization’s decision-making process, with digital transformation being their main priority. Challenges that stand in the way of it include changing company culture – the patterns of behaviour that often prevent benefits of technological updates – and finding the right talent. The CanadianCIO Census 2018 reflects participation from more than 100 top enterprise leaders and is sponsored by CA Technologies. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation Canadian CIOs, customer engagement, IT talent Horror stories show need to scrutinize industrial control systems Employers hiking salaries to attract new hires, but forgetting about current staff, Hays reports About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content How CIOs can pioneer digital transformation CEOs are leaning on CIOs to do a lot more, says new report, but few CIOs are following through Developer 30 under 30 list expands to Evoke conference, hackathon in third year Ontario tech CEOs ask Doug Ford to reinstate basic income pilot Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada