https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/lenovo-releases-thinksmart-hub-500-for-better-conferencing/418934
Lenovo releases ThinkSmart Hub 500 for better conferencing | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Emerging Tech Lenovo releases ThinkSmart Hub 500 for better conferencing Tom Li @itworldca Published: June 12th, 2019 Lenovo announced the ThinkSmart Hub 500, an all-in-one video conferencing hub for Zoom Rooms and Microsoft Team, at InfoComm 2019 today. “The smart office market is growing exponentially and partnering with Lenovo to develop an industry-leading Zoom Rooms solution will be instrumental in helping customers embrace smart collaborative tools,” said Oded Gal, Zoom head of product management. “The simple-to-setup and intuitive ThinkSmart Hub 500 for Zoom Rooms is the perfect partner for companies to enable local and remote employees communicate efficiently, on time, every time.” The ThinkSmart Hub 500 comes with an 11.6″ FHD touch panel for managing conference calls. The display is rotatable, giving anyone present control over the unit. Dual 4W speakers and two dual-array omnidirectional microphones are also onboard. Internally, the ThinkSmart Hub 500 comes with an Intel Core i7-7500T processor, 8GB of RAM, and a 128GB SSD. Port selections include two HDMI ports, four USB-A 3.0 ports, an Ethernet port, and a 3.5mm audio jack. An HDMI input port allows for a capture card to be installed. Enterprise hardware needs enterprise security. Safeguards on ThinkSmart Hub 500 include Intel’s vPro technology and Lenovo’s ThinkShield security suite in addition to the inherent protection offered by Windows IoT edition. Physically, the base features a Kensington lock mount and secure cable management door to prevent tampering. Lenovo is also making various additions for the ThinkSmart Hub 500 with various partners. Prominent products include the Huddly IQ AI camera and the Avocor Interactive display. The Lenovo ThinkSmart Hub 500 for Zoom Rooms will be available from July 2019, starting at $1,799 USD. All units come with a three-year warranty. Careers, Emerging Tech conference, IP video, Lenovo, video, VOIP Visa B2B Connect blockchain transaction platform launches globally SAP among 3 companies competing to replace Phoenix About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Intel processor constraint to continue in 2020, says HPE Lenovo’s bendy ThinkPad X1 Fold is US$2,500, coming mid-2020 Lenovo announces first 5G-enabled laptop All Hands on Tech – Samsung Note 10 Plus Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada