https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-ecole-polytechnique-uber-safety-report-samsung-galaxy-fold-available-for-purchase-for-real/424938
Hashtag Trending – École Polytechnique; Uber safety report; Samsung Galaxy Fold available for purchase, for real | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – École Polytechnique; Uber safety report; Samsung Galaxy Fold available for purchase, for real Tom Li @itworldca Published: December 9th, 2019 On this Monday episode of Hashtag Trending, we remember the École Polytechnique tragedy, Uber’s safety report, and Samsung’s foldable phone available for sale in Canada. https://twitter.com/search?q=%23MontrealMassacre&src=trend_click&pt=1203035106912419843%2C1203025664837931008 Trending on Twitter, Canadians everywhere are mourning the loss of 14 young women in the École Polytechnique massacre. On December 6th, 1989, a gunman opened fire on École Polytechnique students claiming that he’s resisting feminism. On Friday, a memorial wases held in Ottawa to honour the lives lost and advocate against violence on women. The memorial also aims to raise awareness for policymakers to foster an inclusive, safe learning environment for women everywhere. https://www.linkedin.com/feed/news/uber-reveals-assaults-in-report-4759108/ Trending on LinkedIn, Uber has finally released its safety reports after waves of demands. In it, Uber revealed over 3,000 sexual assault reports in 2018, over half of which were reports on drivers. While it’s a small percentage of the 2.3 billion rides it served in 2019, assault in any capacity towards anyone is unacceptable and should be prevented at all costs. In its report, Uber is working with more than 200 experts and advocacy groups from around the world on improving ride safety for both passengers and drivers. https://mobilesyrup.com/2019/12/06/samsung-galaxy-fold-canada-2/ Lastly, trending on Google, the Samsung Galaxy Fold is now available in Canada. For the low, low price of $2,599, you can score yourself a 7.3-inch folding screen and top of the line specs. That is if you don’t mind dealing with a larger, heavier phone. Samsung also includes a pair of Galaxy Buds with every purchase as well as a free screen repair and priority phone support. Currently, they’re only available in limited quantities in major Samsung Experience stores. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Cyber Security Today: Learn lessons from this $1 million email scam Full speed ahead a winning strategy for digital transformation About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada