https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/comparing-enterprise-software-with-confidence/395216
Comparing enterprise software with confidence | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Software Comparing enterprise software with confidence Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: July 27th, 2017 The Internet has made it much easier for people to decide on a software solution for their organization. While pre-Internet you had to do all the legwork yourself, now it’s a simple matter of going online and performing a Google search — “SMB antivirus software comparison,” for example. Google will come back at you with websites like toptenreview.com, pcmag.com, and tomsguide.com, each delivering what appears to be a clean, unbiased comparison of software products. While in theory, this is a legitimate way to whittle your list of software possibles down to two or three, you can never really be 100 per cent sure the information you get is unbiased. Somewhere in the back of your mind, you wonder if the vendors whose products appear on these websites are paying to be seen. The problem with ratings Although user product ratings can steer you in the right direction, they do have shortcomings, including: Quality – Customers who have extreme opinions about a product are most likely to post a review, which makes for a low-quality sample. Think Apple obsessives and, on the other end of the spectrum, angry, perhaps socially deprived basement trolls for whom outrage is an art form. Size – There is often no way of knowing how many users have weighed in on a product you see being reviewed online. This makes that 4.5-star rating for Product X dubious at best, and downright deceptive at worst. Method – Evaluating product performance fairly and accurately requires you to take a scientific approach. While some websites claim to test products side by side, in a controlled setting, there is often the sense that a less-than-scientific approach is used in arriving at ratings and comparing multiple products of the same type. ITWC and TEC IT World Canada, the leading Canadian online resource for IT professionals working in medium to large enterprises, is pleased to be partnered with TEC, a software analysis firm that helps organizations of all sizes identify and present the software solutions that most precisely align to their business requirements. TEC’s professional expertise covers the entire spectrum of business software, including: Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP); Customer Relationship Management (CRM); Human Capital Management (HCM) and other HR-related technologies; Business Intelligence (BI) and analytics; and various other specialized and industry-specific software categories. TEC process TEC analyzes your current processes, IT, and overall goals to establish an architecture that will make your organization more efficient, competitive, and productive. TEC defines what is required to support your organization’s business processes. TEC evaluates and selects the software that will best fit your organization’s needs. TEC negotiates the best price and terms with the chosen software vendor/implementer. TEC ensures your software is implemented in line with your objectives—on time and on budget. Through TEC Advisor, you have access to an industry-leading database of over 25,000 features and functions for more than 40 software categories. TEC clients also have access to an extensive team of professional analysts and software selection experts, as well as a vast library of software selection data. Find out more by visiting the TEC website or downloading this free report about impartial software selection. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Software enterprise software, software, TEC Stop being sloppy, Ernst & Young cyber leader tells infosec pros It’s time for the Competition Bureau to turn its eye on Big Tech About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Adobe to deactivate all user accounts in Venezuela ITWC partners with SoftwareReviews.com – because buying enterprise software should be more like deciding where to eat for dinner The Business Leadership Podcast: Eli Aleyner, GM of alliances at Pivotal New President working to reshape Avaya Canada Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada