https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-iphone-update-catching-sketchy-apps-tech-companies-dying-out-no-more-need-to-cancel-subscriptions/421893
Hashtag Trending – iPhone update catching sketchy apps; Tech companies dying out?; No more need to cancel subscriptions | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – iPhone update catching sketchy apps; Tech companies dying out?; No more need to cancel subscriptions Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: September 17th, 2019 The new iPhone update is already catching sketchy activity from apps; It could be that “tech companies” are slowly dying; Those in the UK no longer need to cancel subscriptions One of the biggest features of the new iOS 13 update was that it would be able to detect when apps on your iPhone are tracking and using your data in covert ways to attempt to avoid detection by the user. And it seems according to a story trending on Reddit, that some users have already seen some big name apps get caught red handed. Apps like Facebook and Youtube have been some of the biggest offenders so far, with Facebook trying to track peoples location at all times, whether they are on the app or not, by asking for access to the users Bluetooth. All I can say to that is no thank you! While anybody can see that the tech craze is not going anywhere, in fact, it is just a part of life now. But according to a study from Recode trending on LinkedIn, we could be seeing the death of the tech company, at least the phrase that has been so overused to describe any company with even a small relation to tech. Despite seeing recent public IPO filings by companies like Uber and WeWork being classified as tech companies, according to the study, the phrases tech and technology have been used 12 per cent less in business documents since August of 2018. Hopefully that start to trickle into all the other buzz words we hear far too often in the industry.And lastly, we have another story trending on Reddit. How often have you signed up for a free month of a service with every intention to cancel it after the free trial period only to forget and get hit with the dreaded charge on next months credit card bill? No need to fret any longer! At least if you live in the UK. A new app, dubbed Free Trial Surfing, which is now available in Apple’s app store with a web version soon to follow. Here’s to hoping it comes to North America soon! Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Wi-Fi Alliance officially announces Wi-Fi 6 certification Pure Storage is still hunting in the storage market, the competition is just milking it, says CEO About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada