https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/compyworks-builds-custom-contractor-solution-to-instantly-translate-100-languages-ingenious-winner/410814
ComplyWorks builds custom contractor solution to instantly translate 100 languages [Ingenious winner] | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Infrastructure Managed Services & Outsourcing ComplyWorks builds custom contractor solution to instantly translate 100 languages [Ingenious winner] Lynn Greiner @lynngr Published: November 6th, 2018 Not only did Calgary-based web solutions provider ComplyWorks have to support a new large multinational customer’s worksite contractors, but it had to do so in 15 different languages. ComplyWorks handles a lot of complicated tasks, as it streamlines contractor, workforce, and worksite compliance management in over 80 countries, but its didn’t have this multilingual capability – yet. Without that support, contractors could be unable to subscribe to the ComplyWorks system, and thus would be unable to prove that they were compliant with employer and regulatory requirements. They would be unable to work onsite until proof was provided. While ComplyWorks provides subscriber services in four languages via telephone, other languages are supported over instant messaging using LiveZilla. Since LiveZilla had no API hooks that would allow it to interface with Google Translate, subject matter experts had to copy and paste questions and responses between LiveZilla and Google Translate to communicate with contractors. It was slow and inefficient, but for a company of around 100 people, the expense of employing native language speakers wasn’t viable. Outsourcing was out of the question, since the agents must be subject matter experts. In January 2018, the company decided to develop a custom interface between Google Translate and LiveZilla to accommodate those 15 languages and the expected 30,000 new contractors to be supported in them. Because LiveZilla did not offer native ways to pass text back and forth to Google Translate, ComplyWorks negotiated access, for a fee, to LiveZilla source code, according to David Bischoff, executive vice president of operations. His team received little support from LiveZilla personnel, so it had to examine and understand the code before building the interface. The three-stage project first developed a language detection layer, then created a side-by-side display of the original message and its translation, and then built management functions allowing support staff to manually switch languages or turn off automatic translation. The project went live in late summer. Tower of Babel reconstructed Today, contractors in need of support can now communicate with support staff in more than 100 languages. The tool automatically detects the subscriber’s language and translates queries and responses in near real-time – 397 milliseconds per 5,000 characters – reducing time to response and cutting down on errors as subscriber services staff handle multiple requests at once. The helpdesk now operates 24 hours a day from three locations. “It’s a selling point,” Bischoff noted. “But we’re not turning it on for everyone yet. We’ve moved quite carefully.” Results so far have been positive. Not only is the new client whose requirements precipitated the project happy, Bischoff says that the new abilities are opening doors to other things. Existing customers are rolling out the service to more countries now that there’s better support for non-English speakers. And the company projects revenue growth of over 70 per cent by August 2019 thanks to its rapid expansion. “We are aspiring to serve a global audience,” Bischoff said, noting the system is designed to scale. Multilingual support is a major differentiator that is propelling ComplyWorks onto the global stage. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Infrastructure, Managed Services & Outsourcing Google, Ingenious Awards, machine learning Cisco middleware solution creates 'healing' environment for Halton Healthcare [Ingenious Award winner] AcuteNet improves patient assessments for Montreal West Island Integrated University Health and Social Services Centre [Ingenious winner] About Lynn Greiner Lynn Greiner has been interpreting tech for businesses for over 20 years and has worked in the industry as well as writing about it, giving her a unique perspective into the issues companies face. She has both IT credentials and a business degree. Follow Follow @lynngr on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone Google bolsters G Suite Hangouts with enterprise features amidst coronavirus outbreak Inflection Point I An interview with AltaML’s managing director about AI’s role in shaping Calgary’s digital future Landing that dream data scientist position Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada