https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/listen-to-nasdaqs-new-market-opening-bell-designed-by-sonos/407716
Listen to Nasdaq's new market-opening bell designed by Sonos | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Leadership Listen to Nasdaq’s new market-opening bell designed by Sonos Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: August 2nd, 2018 It’s pretty common for companies launching new tickers to the Nadaq Stock Exchange to ring the opening bell, but getting to design how that bell sounds is unique. Today when Sonos lists its shares for its initial public offering (IPO) on Nasdaq in New York City’s Times Square, it will debut its new redesigned sound for the bell. “Sonos Sound Experience Lead Giles Martin and Academy Award-winning sound engineer Chris Jenkins worked with Nasdaq on the project. Experimenting with different instruments and techniques, our sound engineers artfully created a bell that both honors Nasdaq’s roots as a disruptor and speaks to our shared commitment to the pursuit of innovation, knowledge and improvement,” Sonos states in a blog post. Focusing on sound design is a perfect marketing fit for Sonos, which sells a line of high-performance smart speakers. Sonos is trying to edge out competition from the likes of Apple, Google, and Amazon by focusing on speakers that music lovers can appreciate. So the idea of crafting a beautiful aural experience that mixes the familiar Nasdaq music with a cacophany of spirit-lifting rings and dings is an ideal way to start its public trading history. The bell will be Nasdaq’s new market-opening siren from now on. Sonos shares what the new bell sounds like with some Soundcloud snippets and how it designed the sound with a Youtube video. Here’s what the old Nasdaq bell sounds like: And now here’s what the new Sonos-designed bell sounds like: Here’s the video describing the design of the sound: We’ll see if the sound of the bell takes on a new meaning based on how SONO performs today in trading. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Leadership design, Nasdaq, sonos Hashtag Trending - Rising sea levels endanger buried fibre; Samsung teams up with Nasa; Best Buy shares its secrets Samsung reveals newest tablet: the Galaxy Tab S4 About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Ikea-Sonos love child; exam-avoiding students arrested; how to get a job Hashtag Trending – Sonos files for IPO; your AI might be human; Pokémon Go turns two Sonos shoots for IPO backed by premium hardware and broad content ecosystem Hashtag Trending – Washington sues Google and Facebook; ZTE strikes deal with U.S.; Sonos’ new Alexa-enabled speaker Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada