https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-amazon-unstoppable-cook-explains-hong-kong-app-removal-toys-r-us-is-back/422811
Hashtag Trending – Amazon unstoppable?; Cook explains Hong Kong app removal; Toys R Us is back | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Amazon unstoppable?; Cook explains Hong Kong app removal; Toys R Us is back Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: October 15th, 2019 Amazon may be unstoppable; Tim Cook explains removal of Hong Kong app; Toys R Us making online comeback We have all seen the exponential growth of Amazon and all of the companies and industries they have left in their wake. And an article from the New Yorker that is trending on Google says that their continued growth may be unstoppable and outlines some serious consequences of that. The author outlines why he believes that not even anti-trust laws may be able to stop them and warns that there may not be a single industry that is safe from the all-consuming path of Amazon. Last week saw some extreme controversy fall over Apple; but not for the usual tariff related reasons. Amid the Hong Kong protests, Apple had released an app to help protesters track the police, but then last week they removed it. Tim Cook spoke publicly about this and defended his decision and it is trending on LinkedIn. Cook explained that the app was being used maliciously by certain individuals to violently target police forces, and this is the reason they chose to remove it. Our final story also makes its way to us from LinkedIn and it brings a tale of redemption and rebirth. After years of dormancy, it seems that Toys R Us is making a comeback in America, all thanks to a new website powered by Target. Target is attempting to leverage some cashflow out of the established website domain that Toys R Us established, and so the site will provide reviews and other original content, while any purchases made will be fulfilled by Target. Additionally, two experimental Toys R Us stores are planned for later this year. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts SAP HANA Cloud Services has Canada written all over it McAfee MPOWER conference focuses on AI and the cloud About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada