https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canada-can-learn-from-u-s-cyber-report-says-expert/428387
Canada can learn from U.S. cyber report, says expert | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by Danil Melekhin via GettyImages.ca Privacy & Security Canada can learn from U.S. cyber report, says expert Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: March 12th, 2020 Canadian political and cyber leaders can learn lessons from a new U.S. congressional report on how the U.S. federal government should defend against internet-based threats, says a security expert. The report by the bipartisan Cyberspace Solarium Commission issued Wednesday is “pretty cutting edge,” said Christian Leuprecht a security and defence expert at Royal Military College and Queen’s University in Kingston, Ont. “What the commission does is validate many of the moves Canada has already made, but it also shows that there’s a lot of ground left to cover. The government’s going to have to have a much more honest and open conversation with Canadians about this space so they understand it a human behaviour and is not a technical problem. Technology plays a role, but you can invest all the money in the world and you’re not going to get ahead.” The report notes that about 95 per cent of successful cyber attacks are the fault of what he called “rookie mistakes that people making in configuring technology, or [poor] digital hygiene — not patching, retaining default passwords.” Named after President Dwight Eisenhower’s 1953 Project Solarium on strategic challenges, the 182-page report makes 75 recommendations across the public and private sector, while presenting several draft bills and proposing changes to government departments and the creation of a National Cyber Director. (There was a cybersecurity co-ordinator within the U.S. National Security Council, but it was eliminated in 2018). “The reality is that we are dangerously insecure in cyber,” the executive summary says. “Our country has lost hundreds of billions of dollars to nation-state-sponsored intellectual property theft using cyber espionage. A major cyberattack on the nation’s critical infrastructure and economic system would create chaos and lasting damage exceeding that wreaked by fires in California, floods in the Midwest, and hurricanes in the Southeast.” The 14 commissioners — four legislators from Congress, four senior Trump administration executive agency leaders, and six experts from outside of government — admit they didn’t agree on everything. For example, they couldn’t make a firm recommendation on the controversial issue of whether the government should order tech companies to give law enforcement and intelligence agencies lawful access to encrypted devices. All they could do is provide a common statement of principles. The report’s recommendations are group into six pillars: Reform the U.S. government’s structure and organization for cyberspace so decisions can be made quicker; Strengthen international cyber norms, or accepted rules of cyber behaviour, through enforceable agreements; Promote national resilience in critical infrastructure, which is the capacity to quickly recover from cyber-attacks; Reshape the cyber ecosystem by partnering with the private sector to encourage the baseline of security to rise; Improve collaboration with the private sector to not only help the government counter cyber threats but also help business understand them; Allow the cyber capabilities of the military to “defend forward” against threats and impose costs on attackers. Canada’s strategy has a number of elements: An updated 2018 National Cybersecurity Strategy, which for years has included working with 10 critical infrastructure sectors (such as energy, transportation, healthcare, manufacturing and finance) to guide them on improving their cybersecurity and response, backed with a 2019 implementation plan; the merging of several federal cyber units in 2018 to create the Canadian Centre for Cyber Security for better advising the public and private sectors; the creation with the RCMP of a National Cyber Crime Coordination Unit (NC3) for handling complaints; and federal support for the Canadian Cyber Threat Exchange (CCTX), a threat information sharing service largely for the private sector. However, the Centre for Cyber Security isn’t fully up to steam. A program to certify businesses as meeting minimum security standards has been launched, but won’t be really running until next year, and the RCMP’s NC3 won’t be until 2023. Related: Canada among countries promising to fight extremist content All this is praised by Leuprecht. “There are some areas where we are exemplary, and the CCTX is a good example.” And so is the Canadian Centre for Cyber Security, once it’s fully operational, he added. “That is something lacking in the U.S.” However, he complains “there’s lots of talk in Ottawa about resilience, but no one knows how to do it.” When it comes to Canada’s critical infrastructure, there’s a lot of heavy lifting to be done, especially around the National Cybersecurity Strategy. “We’ve really left much of the private sector up to themselves to try and figure it out.” He believes a cyber attack against the healthcare sector now during a serious outbreak of a flu-like virus would cause “chaos.” Rather than act at the speed of cyber, he complained “we have a government structure set up to move at analog speeds. We need much more rapid decision processes, we need a more agile and flatter government” to respond to online threats. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Government of Canada, postmedia, security strategies, United States Hashtag Trending - Amazon flooded with virus fakes; Musk’s battery farm; Edge concerns The bad guys are arming themselves with AI, but so are we, says Darktrace's country manager for Canada About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada