https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/despite-surge-of-female-entrepreneurs-in-canada-stem-still-lagging-behind/415771
Despite surge of female entrepreneurs in Canada, STEM still lagging behind | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Leadership Despite surge of female entrepreneurs in Canada, STEM still lagging behind Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: March 8th, 2019 While female entrepreneurs in Canada are on the rise, a study commissioned by Salesforce.com Inc. and The Gandalf Group shows that they are not breaking into science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) at the same rates as they are with other industries. Released just ahead of International Women’s Day, the study shows 53 per cent of businesses led by females have existed for five years or less, compared to 34 per cent for their male counterparts; which suggests that women are starting businesses at a greater rate in recent years than men. Despite this surge, it is twice as likely for a man to open up a STEM-related business (13 per cent of women surveyed had businesses in STEM, compared to 25 per cent of the men). Credit: Salesforce The statistics within this study seem to show that this is due to some struggles that women are experiencing more often than men; struggles that seem to be experienced more greatly in STEM than any other industry. And yet, the findings showed that female entrepreneurs across all industries actually found it a little easier to implement new technology in their business than their male counterparts. So what is leading to this discrepancy within the STEM industry? Some of the main struggles outlined by the study are achieving work-life balance, acquiring capital, and undervaluation of their product or service by consumers. Almost two-thirds of the women who were surveyed said they experienced struggles in those areas compared to less than half of the men surveyed. Two-thirds of women say they struggled with their work-life balance (compared to 48 per cent of men), 63 per cent of women had troubles acquiring capital (compared to 40 per cent of men), and 61 per cent of women say they felt their products or services was undervalued by consumers (compared to 41 per cent of men). Credit: Salesforce You can read the full report here. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership entrepreneurship, Female Entrepreneurs, STEM, Women in STEM Cyber Security Today: March 8, 2018 -- Encourage women to be cyber warriors, avoid business email compromise and be less visible online ITWC partners with SoftwareReviews.com - because buying enterprise software should be more like deciding where to eat for dinner About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Year Zero I A Reimagination of the Future with Sophia Fairweather, One of Canada’s Brightest Young Digital Luminaries Diversity more than just meeting numbers, everyone needs to ‘go all in’ says #movethedial founder Survey shows that Canadian women still don’t feel welcome by tech companies Helen Wetherley-Knight, CIO of Calgary Drop-In Centre’s Philosophy of Women in IT Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada