https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-google-announces-new-smartphones-better-google-assistant-and-google-lens/417812
Hashtag Trending – Google announces new smartphones, better Google Assistant and Google Lens | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Google announces new smartphones, better Google Assistant and Google Lens Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: May 8th, 2019 Google releases Pixel 3a and 3a XL smartphones, upgrades Google Assistant, and improves Google Lens. The top story today is from the Google IO 2019 event. Trending on Google, the Google Pixel 3 series smartphones are now joined by two new budget-oriented members. The Google Pixel 3a and the Pixel 3a XL inherits the phenomenal camera of their predecessors while slightly improving the battery life and come at a much more affordable price point. Granted, they only feature a Qualcomm Snapdragon 670 chipset, but that’s still ample to tackle everyday productivity and entertainment. And yes, the headphone jack makes a return on these devices, which is a seemingly long-forgotten relic for today’s high-end smartphones. On the same vein, expect big upgrades to future versions of Google Assistant and voice recognition. Google has also announced that it will be baking machine learning models and voice recognition data Directly into the devices themselves. This enables the phones to process voice commands and perform complex transcriptions even without an active data connection. It helps with privacy, too, as all the data are processed on the device, and only sends the parsed data to the cloud AI model. Google also has big plans for Google Lens, its image recognition app. Through an update late this month, Google Lens will gain better content awareness and perform even more complex tasks. On stage, a demo showed how Google Lens was able to highlight the most popular items on a menu and expand the items to provide more context. Additionally, it was able to calculate tips and split the total by just a quick scan of the bill. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Remember to add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Careers Google, google pixel, hashtag trending, podcasts SAPPHIRE NOW: Combining O-Data and X-Data is "next frontier" in business Cyber Security Today: Privacy awareness week, Canadian cellular carrier's data exposed and the cost to businesses of cyber crime About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada