https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-privacy-awareness-week-canadian-cellular-carriers-data-exposed-and-the-cost-to-businesses-of-cyber-crime/417818
Cyber Security Today: Privacy awareness week, Canadian cellular carrier's data exposed and the cost to businesses of cyber crime  | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today: Privacy awareness week, Canadian cellular carrier’s data exposed and the cost to businesses of cyber crime Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: May 8th, 2019 This is privacy awareness week, Canadian cellular carrier’s data exposed, the cost to businesses of cyber crime, phone and laptop seized at the border and a big WordPress update. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Wednesday May 8th. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanda.com A number of privacy authorities for countries that touch the Pacific Ocean, including Canada and the U.S., have declared this is privacy awareness week. This year’s theme is something all listeners should remember: ‘Protecting privacy is everyone’s responsibility.’ That not only means companies, governments and their connected suppliers need to have robust privacy policies, but consumers also have to learn and understand their privacy rights. In Canada, those rights are covered partly under provincial law and partly under federal law. In the U.S. they are largely covered under state law, but the Federal Trade Commission has some rules over what businesses do with your data. So you need to go to the web sites of your jurisdictions and do some reading. It’s important for you to think carefully when you give out personal information to a company. There’s lot of privacy resources online. Here’s a link to 10 tips for protecting personal information from Canada’s privacy commissioner, and a link to the U.S. based Electronic Privacy Information Center. Speaking of privacy, a CBC news story this week is a reminder that Canada Border Services has the right to seize your laptop and cellphone if you don’t hand over your passwords if they suspect there has been a customs violation. The government says officers may only conduct a search if there are multiple indicators that evidence of contraventions may be found on a device. A lawyer who says he was returning to Canada after studying several months in South America said he was given no explanation why his devices were seized. Wyzant, the online portal where students can find tutors has suffered a data breach. In a letter sent to customers the company said a hacker got access to names, email addresses and zip codes, and for some people, their Facebook profile image. No passwords or payment information was accessed. Speaking more of privacy, the privacy of at least 15,000 subscribers to Canadian wireless carrier Freedom Mobile was violated when we learned this week that security researchers discovered an unprotected database of information on the Internet. The data not only included subscriber names, dates of birth, email addresses but also their credit card and verification numbers. Freedom Mobile blamed another company that did some data processing of customer information for misconfiguring a server holding that data. We don’t know how many people might have stumbled across that database and are using the information for crime. But more than one expert has noted that errors by employees or those who work for suppliers — as happened in this case — are often behind data breaches. Speaking of which, the annual Cost of Cybercrime report from consulting firm Accenture and the Ponemon Institute was released this week. It figures the average cost last year of discovering, investigating and recovering from cyber attacks for the organizations was $13 million. That was a 12 per cent increase over 2017. Companies studied faced an average of 145 breaches of their security in 2018 — although not all of them resulted in stolen data. That was also an increase over 2017. The report makes three recommendations to security pros: Make security awareness training of employees and partners a priority; protect your data better and spend on technology that helps discover attacks. Finally, a new version of the WordPress content management system used by a large number of bloggers and news publishers has been released. Version 5.2 has protection against an attacker infecting the company’s update server with malware, which would result in infecting every WordPress installation in the world that installs updates. WordPress administrators should think about moving to this new version. As experts note, it doesn’t solve the problem of infected WordPress plugins, but apparently protection against that is coming. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Hashtag Trending - Google announces new smartphones, better Google Assistant and Google Lens New OpenText content services to be integrated into SAP platforms About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada