https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/new-bell-patent-details-lte-connected-smartband/424140
New Bell patent details LTE-connected smartband | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Wireless & IoT New Bell patent details LTE-connected smartband Tom Li @itworldca Published: November 19th, 2019 Update: The news was first broken by The Logic. The author regrets failing to attribute to the correct sources. A new Bell Canada Enterprises (BCE) patent revealed that the telecommunication company is posing itself to target the wearable market. Filed by Tony Hui, products and services development manager for Bell Canada (according to his LinkedIn profile), the new patent detailed a wearable device tailored to providing emergency services. The device would have sensors that measure heart rate, temperature, altimeter, accelerometer, and fall detection, among others. It could alert the user when it senses a dangerous environment or, in the case of an actual emergency, send out alerts on the user’s behalf. Moreover, the wearable may be configured with an SOS button. By including a GPS, the device may also be used as a location tracker. The patent document outlined a number of flexible parameters including form factor and display formats. For example, while it could be configured with an LED display, it could also rely solely on LED alert lights to conserve power. The inventor also intended to leave the design aspect up to the various manufacturers provided that they meet the functional criteria. While the market is in no short supply of robust smart wearables, BCE highlighted a common pitfall they share in its patent summary. “Any of these wearable devices are also not able to independently connect to a cellular network and often require to be ‘paired’ with other devices or must communicate by alternative means, which may inhibit the device’s ability to communicate with remote devices, respond to an emergency, etc. As such, the functionality of existing wearable devices is limited.” To mitigate this issue, BCE’s wearable patent explicitly required the device to be able to connect to a low power wide area network (such as LTE-M) without a parent device. BCE hasn’t yet announced arrival time or any specific partnerships with device manufacturers. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Wireless & IoT Bell, smartwatch Microsoft says Teams has hit 20 million daily users Dealer-FX’s Alan Fong | A 2019 CanadianCIO of the Year finalist About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Bell, Rogers, Telus and others temporarily remove internet data caps Expert says CRTC’s data plan proposals for telcos are ‘misguided’ Bell chooses Nokia as ‘first’ 5G network supplier, awaits Huawei decision Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada