https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-mozilla-paid-browser-samsung-galaxy-fold-updated-release-date-google-maps-combats-cab-fare-scam/418895
Hashtag Trending – Mozilla paid browser; Samsung Galaxy Fold updated release date; Google Maps combats cab fare scam | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Mozilla paid browser; Samsung Galaxy Fold updated release date; Google Maps combats cab fare scam Tom Li @itworldca Published: June 11th, 2019 Mozilla to launch a paid browser, Samsung Galaxy Fold gets an updated release date, Google Maps warns users of unscrupulous cab drivers. That’s all the news that’s trending today. It’s Tuesday, June 11th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Google, Mozilla may launch a paid version of Firefox this fall. Chirs Beard, Mozilla CEO, told German media outlet T3N that the company is looking at an October launch date. The paid version is said to include a VPN service that charges based on usage. Rest assured, however, that the current free version will not be affected. Beard said that the company has no plans to charge for things that are currently free. From my Feedly page, Samsung has finally painted a time frame for its Galaxy Fold smartphone launch date. The launch date for the ostentatious foldable smartphone was postponed after a number of reviewers reported issues with the hinge and the display. After six months of silence, a Samsung spokesperson confirmed to CNET that the timing will be officially announced in the coming weeks. It still sounds super vague, but it’s at least something to look forward to. Lastly, trending on Reddit, Google Maps can now warn you if your cab driver strays from the optimal path. Too often we hear horror stories about a visitor being charged ridiculous cab fares in foreign countries. To combat against scams, Google Maps will now have a Stay Safer option that automatically alerts the user when the cab digresses by more than 500 meters. The feature is currently being rolled out in India, but no announcements have been made for other countries. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Careers hashtag trending, podcasts Cisco Live Day 1: Major announcements around IoT and multi-domain integrations Dell updates XPS and Precision business laptop lineups About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada