https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-u-s-police-cant-unlock-phones-airpod-charging-case-listen-app-for-podcasts/414196
Hashtag Trending – U.S. police can't unlock phones; AirPod charging case; Listen App for podcasts | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – U.S. police can’t unlock phones; AirPod charging case; Listen App for podcasts Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: January 16th, 2019 A judge rules that the U.S. government can’t ask suspects to unlock their smartphones with biometrics, a wireless charging case for your AirPods, and a new podcast app you might like. Feds Can’t Force You To Unlock Your iPhone With Finger Or Face, Judge Rules from technology Trending on Reddit, American police can no longer force suspects to unlock their smartphones using biometrics like fingerprints or their face. Reported by Forbes, the order comes from a U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California in response to a search warrant request for a property in Oakland. The crime was Facebook extortion. A victim was asked to pay a ransom or face having an embarrassing video of them released on the Internet. The police wanted to search the property and be able to unlock any device they found on it. Even though the judge agreed the investigators had probable cause, she also said the request was overbroad. She also ruled the government doesn’t have the right to force suspects to unlock their devices with biological features. A note for Canadians, this doesn’t apply to crossing the border into the U.S. – that’s a different authority and it’s still possible they’ll ask you to unlock your devices. Trending on Youtube, Unbox Therapy shows off a wireless charging case for your Apple AirPods. If you’re an AirPod user and you want a way to get some extra battery life out of your earbuds, this might be for you. Here’s how the video host explains it: And if you like to listen to podcasts on those AirPods, then you should know what’s trending on Product Hunt. Listen App is the first gesture-based podcast app. Right now, as you listen to this podcast, I bet your hands are busy. Maybe you’re making your breakfast, or washing dishes, or you’re fumbling for your bus fare. Listen App keeps that in mind with its design approach and makes it easy to control with one hand. You can also add custom feeds and make your own playlists. If you try it, remember to add Hashtag Trending! Careers AirPods, biometrics, hashtag trending, podcasts Nova Scotia privacy commissioner blames government department for data breaches Planning for a successful AI journey About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada