https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/government-issues-cyber-security-guide-for-smbs/416464
Government issues cyber security guide for SMBs | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Government issues cyber security guide for SMBs Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: April 1st, 2019 Small and mid-sized companies face a dilemma when it comes to cyber security: If they can’t afford full-time infosec experts to effectively defend themselves, what and how much can they afford to do? To answer, the government hopes, is in a new guide issued by the Canadian Centre for Cyber Security. The Centre is the recently-established federal advisory agency on security. It’s a unit of the Communications Security Establishment, responsible for securing federal departments. Called the Baseline Cyber Security Controls for Small and Medium Businesses, the offers SMBs advice on getting the biggest bang for their bucks. “We understand that not every organization can implement every control,” says the guide. “If the majority of Canadian organizations implement these controls, however, Canada will be more resilient and cyber-secure.” Suggestions are tailored for SMBs. For example, it says they should think about automating the installation of software updates as a time-saver instead of testing each patch before installation. Admittedly that’s risky. Large organizations should have full vulnerability and patch management assessment programs, the guide notes, to avoid problems with patches that clash with existing software. However, the guide says most SMBs should consider accepting the risks of patching by default. Related Articles Over 80 per cent of Canadian IT pros said their firms were breached last year: Vendor survey How many organizations in Canada have their defences breached in a year? Almost all of them, if a survey by... March 13th, 2019 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC StatsCan report: 21 per cent of Canadian businesses impacted by a cyber event in 2017 In the first government study of busines victims of cyber crime, just over one-fifth (21 per cent) of over 10,000... October 16th, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC There’s a lot of public information available to help organizations create a cyber security program, Colin Belcourt, the Centre’s director of standards, architecture and risk mitigation, noted in an interview. “We felt there was a gap in the information available for small and medium organizations.” “The baseline security controls we published are meant to be a break-down of a potentially daunting task … They’re meant to be measures that have a high return on investment, and should be easily consumable.” The guide differs from the Centre’s Top 10 IT Security Actions organizations can take, which, as its name suggests, is a list. The 18-page document offers a bit of guidance to each step without being too methodical. Note, however, that the guide is not for SMBs whose ongoing viability would be endangered by a successful cyber attack, nor those whose data or systems could compromise public or national security. Those organizations, the document says, should have comprehensive protection. Organization and baseline controls It splits recommendations into two parts: Organizational controls and baseline controls. Belcourt says SMBs should look at them in that order. Briefly, organizational controls involve making an inventory, ranking the value of data and IT systems, and appointing someone in leadership to be responsible for IT security. “You can have a fairly small organization that has very sensitive data that could be an attractive target for cyber threat actors,” Belcourt pointed out. “So the organization controls really help you assess the scope and do an analysis of risk to ensure the baseline controls that follow are in the right context.” Baseline controls are the expected things like patching policy, anti-malware, secure configuration, use of strong user authentication for logins, employee awareness training, backing up and encrypting data and securing mobile devices. Interestingly, the baseline controls section suggests first creating a written plan for responding to and recovering from cyber incidents.”Start by thinking something is going to eventually go wrong,” Belcourt said, and what the organization will do: Who will be in charge of the response? Who will contact employees, customers, shareholders, regulators? and so on. In fact not having a response plan is one of the worst decisions an SMBs can make, he said. ‘Hopefully, Belcourt said, SMBs using the guide won’t see cyber security as an overly daunting task “and therefore do nothing.” Click here to download a copy of the guide. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Canadian Centre for Cyber Security, security strategies Huawei P30 Pro camera demo: Zooming in on Paris Cyber Security Today: April 1, 2019 -- Guilty of password scam, watch these email subject lines and don't fall for this Twitter prank About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada