https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ottawa-to-begin-sharing-data-with-waze-for-cities/425241
Ottawa to begin sharing data with Waze for Cities | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Mobility Public Sector Ottawa to begin sharing data with Waze for Cities Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: December 16th, 2019 The City of Ottawa has announced plans to partner with the Waze for Cities program. “Many residents need road and traffic information to get around in their busy work and family lives. Whether they need to pick their children up from daycare or take them to the rink for a practice or a game, taking the best route is key to making their schedule,” said Councillor Stephen Blais, Ottawa’s chair of the transportation committee, in a press release. “This data-sharing partnership with Waze puts City traffic information right in the palms of their hands – enhancing the lives of parents and their kids.” The program, which already exists in other major North American metropolitan areas like Toronto, Montreal, New York, and San Francisco, facilitates the sharing of transit data from cities to be incorporated into the crowd-sourced Waze transit app to allow for more accurate and up-to-date traffic reports. “The Waze map is a unique tool that evolves with every driver and data point it receives, promoting safer roads and sharing more knowledge with Wazers about potential delays to their commutes,” said Mike Wilson, Waze’s country manager for Canada, in the press release. “Waze is excited to have Ottawa join the Waze for Cities program as a new partner, giving local citizens a greater ability to circumvent road closures and traffic jams within the app.” Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Mobility, Public Sector City of Ottawa, Ottawa, Waze, Waze for Cities Cisco launches Silicon One, enters component biz Microsoft Canada president says startups should collaborate more, but 'not to the point of giving up your secrets' About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content City of Ottawa to launch 311 AI chatbot powered by Microsoft’s Power Virtual Agent Waze integrates city data into Google Cloud Pay attention! Ottawa-based SmartCone uses IoT to alert to life-threatening dangers Ottawa’s Martello is making hotel WiFi better, investors are noticing Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada