https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/made-in-vancouver-product-will-rely-on-wifi-to-detect-weapons/428374
Made-in-Vancouver product will rely on Wi-Fi to detect weapons | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Emerging Tech Privacy & Security Made-in-Vancouver product will rely on WiFi to detect weapons Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: March 11th, 2020 As Canada’s former Minister of Public Safety, Stockwell Day says he can’t help but always have his antennas up. For two years between 2006 and 2008, Day was responsible for the RCMP, CSIS, and the CBSA. He spent many hours with security officials during that time discussing security threats in Canada and abroad while using all the tools at the government’s disposal to protect people from danger. “You’re always wondering how to continue to push the perimeter out further to protect people,” Day told IT World Canada. “Those situations never leave you.” That’s why he became the head advisor for a Canadian company called First Responder Technologies, a startup from Vancouver that’s leveraging research from Rutgers University to develop a product that will be piloted in several countries, including Canada, starting in May. The startup has discovered what Day calls a true difference-maker for law enforcement and the general public: WiFi. Sure, it’s often associated with connectivity, but Day says those wireless signals are the foundation for a new product that can detect guns and knives much more efficiently than traditional metal detectors. It’s a compelling product that can easily be set up in stadiums, concerts, virtually anywhere that is expected to draw a large crowd. The product is expected to cost less than $10,000. Image submitted by First Responder Technologies. In most public places, wireless signals can penetrate bags to get the dimensions of dangerous metal objects and identify them, including weapons, aluminum cans, laptops, and batteries for bombs. A 2018 study from the U.S.-based Rutgers University revealed that WiFi could accurately detect dangerous objects 99 per cent of the time; a figure that slips to 90 per cent when concealed objects are wrapped in material. Also: Toronto Metro Convention Centre to install weapon detection tech that uses machine learning But despite the slight drop off, Day says he was confident this was the beginning of something significant. “This particular technology checks all of the boxes: the ability to protect, the corresponding concerns about privacy, low cost, and relatively easy to set up,” he says. The benefits of WiFi signals over millimetre wave signals. Source: First Responder Technologies Privacy by design is foundational to the product, explains Robert Delamar, chief executive officer and director for First Responder. “WiFi allows us to detect the metal signature – and hopefully in time, the shape and size of an object – so we can detect the worst harms,” says Delamar. “But it’s not high resolution enough where we can see everything with 3D imaging. And that’s strangely the benefit by being only ‘good enough’ to detect the worst harms like knives and firearms. The technology isn’t so sensitive that it will detect a nail file. That was by design. Robert Delamar, CEO of First Responder Technologies. “The definition of what’s a minimum viable product for us is one that catches firearms and long knives only. Will it get better over time? Our roadmap says absolutely, we’re going to try.” The product is expected to consist of a pair of posts with embedded WiFi antennas that create a virtual fence in between each other. They can detect dangerous metal objects, theoretically catching an individual with a weapon almost immediately once they enter the premises. It also completed a major milestone earlier this month by demonstrating the prototype at the U.K. Home Office Show. It’s also important to note, says Delamar, that the product doesn’t use the existing installed WiFi that’s connected to the internet. “It’s not a connectivity signal, it’s a detection signal,” he explains, noting the layers of encryption will make it tough for even sophisticated hackers to try and compromise the product. “You’d have to hack the posts themselves,” he says. When asked about how the pilots starting in May will look like, Delamar says it will involve one systems integrator, one local government, and one value-added-reseller. Artificial Intelligence, Emerging Tech, Privacy & Security first responders, postmedia, Weapons Detection, WiFi Don't accept 'no,' women who want careers in cybersecurity can get one, says Juniper Networks exec Hashtag Trending - Amazon flooded with virus fakes; Musk’s battery farm; Edge concerns About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada