https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/microsofts-exchange-server-2010-has-its-end-of-support-pushed-back-by-nine-months/421862
Microsoft's Exchange Server 2010 has its end of support pushed back by nine months | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Software Microsoft’s Exchange Server 2010 has its end of support pushed back by nine months Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: September 16th, 2019 Microsoft Corp. is pushing back its January 14, 2020 end of support date for Exchange Server 2010 by nine months. In a blog post published this morning, Greg Taylor, Microsoft’s director of product marketing for Exchange, noted the date was changed after “investigating and analyzing the deployment state of an extensive number of Exchange customers.” The new October 13, 2020 end of support date for Exchange Server 2010 lines up with the end of support for Office 2010 and SharePoint Server 2010. There is no mention of any changes to the end of support date for Windows 7, which Microsoft has said will no longer get free security updates after January 4, 2020. IT World Canada has reached out to Microsoft for confirmation. Unsurprisingly, Taylor suggested moving to Exchange Online and Office 365 is the clearest upgrade path. “If you migrate fully to Office 365 you really don’t need to worry about ‘big bang’ version upgrades any more. You just have to keep a much smaller number of on-premises servers up to date, and you’re good,” he wrote. Taylor also reminded users that if they want to stay on-premises, they won’t be able to upgrade directly from Exchange 2010 on-prem to Exchange Server 2019. “You can upgrade to Exchange 2013 or 2016 directly from Exchange 2010 and we recommend you upgrade to Exchange 2016 if you have the choice,” he wrote. Another looming deadline is for Windows Server 2008/2008 R2 on January 14, 2020. Microsoft offers several options to bridge the pre-upgrade gap. Microsoft Canada’s general manager of cloud and enterprise, Khalil Alfar, has previously said the most straightforward upgrade path is the latest version of SQL Server, currently SQL Server 2017. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Software Exchange Server, Microsoft, postmedia, Windows, Windows Server Sage gets cloudy, moves towards open source and microservices Wi-Fi Alliance officially announces Wi-Fi 6 certification About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada