https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/details-mum-as-lenovo-unveils-the-foldable-thinkpad-x1-laptop/417970
Details mum as Lenovo unveils the foldable ThinkPad X1 laptop | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Mobility Wireless & IoT Details mum as Lenovo unveils the foldable ThinkPad X1 laptop Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: May 13th, 2019 Orlando — Lenovo briefly paraded its latest innovation, a foldable ThinkPad X1 laptop, in front of reporters during its annual Transform 3.0 at Accelerate Monday, calling it the world’s first foldable PC. Several Lenovo executives, including Luis Hernandez, vice-president of commercial product solutions and development, alluded to a strong desire by the company to pull the device out of development before its 2020 release – no specific launch date or price was announced – and show it off to the world during its conference. “They actually let me out of the lab to be here with you all,” joked Hernandez, who touted the accomplishments of Lenovo engineers and its technology partners as it relates to the foldable device, but was mum on a lot of details. What’s certain at this point is that it’s part of the ThinkPad X1 family, boasts an OLED 2K display, which was made in collaboration with LG, and it can fold in half, reducing its width by 50 per cent. It’s also Intel-powered with Windows and weighs less than 2 lbs. Lenovo is adamant that the foldable ThinkPad X1 is not a phone, tablet or a hybrid of the two – it’s a full-fledged laptop with a foldable screen. Reporters crowd around Luis Hernandez, vice-president of commercial product solutions and development, to catch a glimpse of the new foldable ThinkPad X1. Photo by Alex Coop. “Within our lineup of PCs, this is our most mobile addition to the portfolio,” said Jerry Paradise, Lenovo’s product manager and head of its commercial portfolio. During a web briefing prior to the Orlando event, Thomas Butler, Lenovo’s executive director of commercial product management, told reporters that the most-mobile workers of today will benefit greatly from a device they can carry around like a phone, but also use for activities that require heavy compute power. “This device will be more adaptable for using more so than a traditional notebook or mobile device. We know you’ll have a phone in your pocket or purse, but your notebook under your arm isn’t useful in all modes,” he explained. Butler walked through a scenario where one wakes up in the morning, reads a few pages from a book while having coffee with the laptop folded in half, watches a video unfolded, and then proceeds to use it like a regular laptop at work with device’s digital keyboard. When asked about any lessons learned from Samsung’s recent bad luck with its Galaxy Fold devices, Thomas said the snafu reinforced the importance of rigorous durability testing. The foldable ThinkPad has yet to complete all of its quality assurance testing, Thomas said, but will include the usual ones against cold, heat, shock, dust and much more. The hinge in particular, he added, will receive extra attention. “We anticipate this device will be opened and closed more than normal, so we’re doubling the hinge test cycles that we’re running on this device compared to regular Yoga and other devices.” **Alex Coop’s travel and accommodations to cover Lenovo Accelerate were paid for by Lenovo. This story was not reviewed externally before publication.** Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility, Wireless & IoT accelerate, Lenovo, postmedia, ThinkPad NextBlock investors vouch for Tapscott as $1 million in fines paid to Ontario Securities Commission Hashtag Trending - Smart Cities Challenge conclusion; Apple Watch update; OCE Discovery About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada