https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-ring-security-cameras-may-not-help-police-vpns-at-risk-and-beware-of-fake-epic-games-launchers/427429
Cyber Security Today – Ring security cameras may not help police, VPNs at risk and beware of fake Epic Games launchers | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – Ring security cameras may not help police, VPNs at risk and beware of fake Epic Games launchers Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: February 19th, 2020 Ring security cameras may not help police, VPNs at risk and beware of fake Epic Games launchers. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Wednesday February 19th. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanada.com. To hear the podcast click on the arrow below: Amazon’s Ring doorbell security cameras give users a feeling of better home security, but there’s little evidence they make a neighborhood safer. That’s the conclusion of an NBC News survey of municipalities where Ring partners with police departments. To boost sales Ring does deals with police to promote their product. Ring says the cameras can help reduce crime and assist with investigations because subscribers can upload video to police. However, after interviewing 40 law enforcement agencies in eight U.S. states that partner with Ring, NBC found few departments willing to say Ring videos help lower crime rates. Thirteen of the 40 police departments said so far they have made no arrests as a result of Ring videos. Others said they don’t keep statistics and have no idea how effective front door video clips are to their departments. Three said their cops waste time reviewing the video clips of non-criminal things. There is conflicting evidence about whether porch video deter thieves from stealing packages left on a doorstep. A virtual private network, or VPN, is software that creates a protected tunnel within network connections for safe communications. That’s how you can be safer using public Wi-Fi for checking email and banking. Well, corporations use VPNs so employees can connect back to their offices from outside locations. But according to a new report, companies haven’t been securing their VPNs very well. A security company called ClearSky says attack groups have teamed up to hack into and steal information from dozens of companies around the world for the last three years. The technique for many of the attacks is to exploit unpatched vulnerabilities in the VPN and in remote desktop protocols in most operating systems. In other words, they’re going through a back door. ClearSky suspects this team effort uses groups based in Iran. But it’s a technique that’s also being used by criminal groups. So, companies that use VPNs and remote desktop access, have got to make sure these tools are secure and patched as soon as vulnerabilities are identified. By the way, if you want to download a personal VPN for your computer make sure it comes from a legitimate website. Security researchers at Kaspersky have discovered a fake website for the ProtonVPN that mimics the real one. People have been going to it after falling for phony online ads for ProtonVPN, then downloading infected software. The news site Bleeping Computer notes criminals have also used this trick to make a fake copy of the NordVPN website. Exploiting holes in Windows and other Microsoft products to infect computers is a common tactic by attackers. So is going after popular digital games. A report from security vendor Trend Micro warns that hackers have created a fake version of the games launcher for Epic Games. Epic makes games like Fortnite, Borderlands and MechWarrior. The fake installer has an Epic Games logo. What it does is install malware to harvest sensitive data such as passwords as well as cryptocurrency information. Gamers should also note in the past there have been reports about fake installers for Steam games. Make sure the installer you have is from the real Epic or Steam websites. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Dell Technologies sells RSA to Symphony Technology Group consortium for over $2 billion Hashtag Trending - CRTC hearing; new budget iPhone; new Microsoft Office app About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada