https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/php-5-4-aspires-to-elegance/45345
PHP 5.4 aspires to elegance | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Managed Services & Outsourcing PHP 5.4 aspires to elegance joab jackson @itworldca Published: March 5th, 2012 NEW YORK — one of the most widely used languages for building websites, has been updated with a number of improvements to ease development and speed performance. “Essentially, most of the new features don’t radically change the language, just refine it,” said Zeev Suraski, one of the principal contributors to PHP as well as CTO of PHP software vendor Zend Technologies. “What you could do before, you can do in an easier, more elegant way now.” For developers, the PHP syntax has been streamlined for easier usability. A new method, called Traits, will enable developers to reuse code. The array syntax has been simplified. Improvements have been added to allow PHP work better with the JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) data exchange format. PHP 5.4 includes native support for Asian languages, eliminating the need for programmers to compile a special version of PHP to present content in those languages. Much work has also been done on this version PHP to improve performance. Thanks to some code refactoring, PHP can now support up to 40 percent more users on the same server. “We’ve reduced memory consumption. When you have a popular Web site, it’s all about density–how many requests per second can your server take. Typically the real limiter is memory. By reducing memory consumption, you can increase density,” Suraski said PHP is used by approximately 5 million developers around the world, primarily for building Web pages with content that is routinely updated or changed, as well as for building Web applications. It is the sixth most widely used programming language worldwide, according to the most recent monthly estimate by the Tiobe Group. In conjunction with this release, Zend also has released the third beta version of Zend Framework 2, which includes support for PHP 5.4. Zend is also testing a PHP hosted service, called the Zend Developer Cloud. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos Your ERP System Is Leaking How to Better Use a Time and Labour Data Collection System to Plug Holes Caused by Fraud and Waste. Read More Managed Services & Outsourcing Web design, Websites Diskeeper changes name, announces new product direction Microsoft wooing startups with free software, business advice Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Website accessibility is still an issue in Ontario, says expert Addressing Advanced Web Threats: Protect Your Data and Brand Addressing Advanced Web Threats: Protect Your Data and Brand 10 Easy Ways to Kill Web Conversions Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada