https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canadians-must-avoid-desensitization-to-data-breaches-and-lobby-for-stronger-penalties-cybersecurity-experts-say/420471
Canadians must avoid desensitization to data breaches and lobby for stronger penalties, cybersecurity experts say | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Canadians must avoid desensitization to data breaches and lobby for stronger penalties, cybersecurity experts say Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: July 30th, 2019 Cybersecurity experts are worried that the increased frequency of data breaches is becoming normalized by the public, reducing the pressure on organizations that handle private data to do better. “It’s clear that this happens to many major companies, even those who invest heavily in security. I don’t want to say that it’s inevitable, because it’s not, but there is an aspect of frequency to this, that is really startling,” said Ira Goldstein, the chief operating officer at Herjavec Group, in an interview with IT World Canada. “I think there’s kind of a societal and philosophical angle to that where people are becoming quite desensitized to it.” Mark Nunnikhoven, vice-president of cloud research at Trend Micro, said that such a desensitization is one of his biggest fears and the worst-case result of cybersecurity breaches like the one at Capital One Financial Corp., which exposed the private information of around 100 million people in the U.S., and 6 million Canadians. Desensitization among the public could also reduce their motivation to lobby for stronger laws and regulations. “That is what I’m scared of. You can’t go a week without opening one of the major national papers and seeing a breach somewhere. It is very easy to become desensitized to, especially in an area as complex as technology. That is an issue so vast and complex that it’s easier just to say ‘that’s just how it is’,” said Nunnikhoven in an interview with IT World Canada. “There’s a lot of things that organizations can do to strengthen their security to reduce the number of data breaches that there are. But without that demand from the people and that big stick from regulators, it’s unlikely they’re going to undertake that of their own accord.” While Canada does lag behind regulatory leaders like Europe’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the federal government did recently implement a new Digital Privacy Act (DPA) that amended the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA) to include regulations that dictate how organizations must report such breaches, although many in the channel community said these new regulations were too vague to have a true impact. But these updated policies, according to Goldstein and Nunnikhoven, don’t include enough financial penalties. Referencing the maximum penalty under the GDPR of 6 per cent of global revenue, Nunnikhoven said that “money talks” and called for additional penalties to be levied against offending Canadian organizations. “That really highlights the biggest weakness in Canadian data privacy regulation. In general, we’ve done a decent job about it. Finally, the nuts and bolts are put in place,” said Nunnikhoven. “The challenge there is that the fines aren’t nearly big enough. We need financial incentives to align security interests of citizens with those of the business. And I think that’s the glaring part.” And with a much lower maximum threshold for fines in Canada than in Europe, Goldstein worries that organizations, especially those who rely on the collection and leveraging of people’s data, will not take them seriously. “With fines up to $100,000, it can be seen as a cost of doing business as opposed to a real penalty that drives behavior.” In its statement, Capital One described the security gap that led to the breach as a “configuration vulnerability”. The charge sheet suggests the alleged hacker used a “firewall misconfiguration” to access the data held by an unnamed cloud computing company. Judging from the email sent to Capital One by a white hat hacker, who refers to an S3, it would suggest this was on Amazon AWS. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Capital One, GDPR, PIPEDA, postmedia We welcome scrutiny, says Huawei Canada's new VP of government affairs Hashtag Trending - Capital One data breach; banning autoplay videos; Skype for Business ending About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada