https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/facebook-cancels-conference-ibm-pulls-out-of-rsa-over-coronavirus-worries/427401
Facebook cancels conference, IBM pulls out of RSA over coronavirus worries | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Graphic by Ababil12 via GettyImages.ca Privacy & Security Facebook cancels conference, IBM pulls out of RSA over coronavirus worries Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: February 17th, 2020 Facebook has canceled its worldwide marketing conference next month in San Francisco, while IBM and an unidentified Canadian company have pulled out of the RSA Conference in San Francisco later this month due to worries about the coronavirus. “Out of an abundance of caution, we canceled our global marketing summit due to evolving public health risks related to coronavirus,” Reuters quoted a Facebook spokesman as saying. As for the RSA conference, IBM said Friday in a tweet that “the health of IBMers is our primary concern as we continue to monitor upcoming events and travel relative to Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19).” However, RSA conference organizers say the annual event is still scheduled to go on. UPDATE: On February 21 Verizon withdrew from RSA Conference. UPDATE: Cisco Systems has canceled its Velocity conference scheduled for March 10 in Austin, Texas, also due to virus concerns. The notice from RSA said also said an unidentified Canadian firm has withdrawn. At publication time it isn’t known which Canadian firm that is. Past exhibitors have included large firms such as BlackBerry, but also a number of lesser-known startups that have small booths as part of a trade show pavilion sponsored by the Ontario and Canadian governments. In an email Sunday evening Mauricio Ospina, the USA area director for information technology at Ontario’s Ministry of Economic Development, said 19 Canadian firms agreed and are still committed to going to the conference. The total number of exhibitors, including IBM, that have cancelled their participation as an RSA Conference sponsor or exhibitor is eight. Six of them are from China. RSA Conference is scheduled to start Feb. 23 with tutorials and seminars. It officially kicks off February 25th with opening keynotes. RSA Conference organizers said in an online notice that as of last Friday approximately 82 per cent of registered attendees are from the United States, as are 82 percent of exhibitors. The travel restrictions imposed by the U.S. Government on January 31st remain in effect, the statement added. It also says that according to the U.S. Center for Disease Control’s situation summary late last week the health risk from coronavirus for the general American public was considered low. Organizers said the conference will continue to follow the guidance of the CDC and the World Health Organization and is in close communication with the City of San Francisco to monitor all new developments pertaining to the coronavirus. Last week organizers cancelled the annual Mobile World Congress in Barcelona — also scheduled to start Feb. 23 — after a significant number of companies pulled out including BT (British Telecom), Facebook, Nokia, Ericsson, Intel, Cisco, Amazon, Vodafone and Germany’s Deutsche Telekom. Cisco Systems cancelled a customer conference in Australia due to the virus. It also dropped plans to bring four foreign reporters, including one from IT World Canada, to cover the RSA Conference as well as a customer day on the conference sidelines. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Facebook, postmedia, RSA Conference Cyber Security Today - Rutter's chain hacked, Android text cons and phone scam arrests in Canada Hashtag Trending - Facebook and taxes, Cyborg locusts, where’s the love Snapchat? About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada