https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/amazon-launches-new-fire-tv-devices-for-canadian-market/409509
Amazon launches new Fire TV devices for Canadian market | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Infrastructure Mobility Amazon launches new Fire TV devices for Canadian market Tom Li @itworldca Published: October 3rd, 2018 Amazon is expanding its Fire TV streaming hardware for the Canadian market. Coming later this month to Canadians are the Toshiba Fire TV Edition TVs, Fire TV Stick 4K, and the Alexa Voice Remote. Furthermore, Amazon will be adding Alexa functionality to all Fire TV devices in Canada. Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K The Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K offers more robust features than the basic Amazon Fire TV stick released last year. In addition to the improved resolution, the Fire TV Stick 4K is also the first Amazon Fire TV Stick to support both HDR10+ and DolbyVision HDR standards, expanding its compatibility with different HDR TVs. Its setup, however, hasn’t changed. Simply plug it into any TV with an HDMI input to turn it into a streaming station for Netflix, Amazon Prime Movies, and Hulu. Toshiba Fire TV Edition TVs The Toshiba Amazon Fire TV Edition smart TV is offered in 4K UHD, 1080p, and 720p resolutions. The 4K UHD version is available in 43″, 50″, and 55″ screen sizes. The 1080p model is available in 43 and 49″, while the 720p model is restricted to 32″. All models have Amazon Fire TV pre-installed and include an Alexa Voice Remote. Users can navigate the TV’s software interface either with the remote’s hardware buttons or send direct voice commands via its microphone. When paired with the Fire TV software, Alexa is capable of projecting visual information onto the TV screen, offering more detailed answers to inquiries like weather and traffic. Alexa Voice Remote The Alexa Voice Remote provides hands-free control to your Fire TV. Simply press a switch on the remote, and it will relay your voice commands to Alexa on the Fire TV. In addition to launching shows, movies, and music, the remote can be used to manage Alexa compatible smart home devices, check the weather, and make orders through Amazon. The remote also features dedicated buttons for volume and playback options. Keep in mind that while it’s fully compatible with the Amazon Fire TV stick, Amazon Fire TV Cube, and the Amazon Fire TV box, it does not work with Amazon Fire TV Edition smart TVs. Canadian availability and price The Toshiba Fire TV Smart TVs are available for pre-order today from Amazon and BestBuy, and will start shipping on Oct. 19. They’ll also be available in-stores exclusively at Best Buy. Customers can pre-order the Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K and the Alexa Voice Remote bundle for $69.99. The Alexa Voice Remote is available as a standalone pre-order for $39.99. Both products will start shipping on Oct. 31. Streaming is booming Consumers widely consider streaming support to be a fundamental feature of smart TVs. In an 2018 report, IHS Markit predicts that Smart TV market share will rise to 70% of all television segment in 2018. The report points to content and convenience as the key growth factors. Viewers are turning to streaming to watch major sporting events, news livestreams, and on-demand content. And as voice assistant integration with Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa becomes commonplace, the added convenience for control further extends streaming’s appeal. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Infrastructure, Mobility Amazon, amazon alexa, IoT, Technology SecTor 2018: Make better use of logs to improve security, staff satisfaction Microsoft announces new Surface Pro 6, Surface Laptop 2, Surface Studio 2 and more About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Explore all the changes in Canadian financial services security in a single day Paranoid privacy tool can jam your smart speaker’s microphone GSMA applies new restrictions as more companies depart MWC due to coronavirus outbreak Oil and gas industry leaders meeting with IoT experts in Alberta to discuss industry issues Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada