https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/new-head-of-lg-ai-lab-wants-your-home-appliances-to-get-smarter/420015
New head of LG AI lab plans to bring research and consumer needs closer together with AI in home appliances | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Digital Transformation Emerging Tech Wireless & IoT New head of LG AI lab wants your home appliances to get smarter Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: July 16th, 2019 LG Electronics Canada has appointed a new head to the LG Artificial Intelligence Lab in Toronto. Darin Graham, the company’s new director of R&D strategy and operations, said consumers can expect to see recent AI research seep into LG products. “What we’re really going to try to do here with our lab is get some wonderful ideas… and start transitioning that AI technology into the applicability of our LG systems,” said Graham in an interview with IT World Canada. “The second part in this is picking those things that can have the greatest impact on the customer’s experience and start focusing on working with our customers and how we can make our systems better for them.” Darin Graham brings with him extensive experience in the field of AI into his new role at the LG Toronto AI Lab. The LG AI Lab in Toronto, which was founded in August 2018 in collaboration with the University of Toronto and serves as an extension of LG’s Santa Clara, California lab, focuses largely on LG’s work in edge computing and edge AI, which LG plans to apply to many of its products such as autonomous vehicles, home appliances, and a range of other products. Graham, who brings with him a PhD in Aerospace Engineering, a Master of Science in Aerospace Engineering, and a Bachelor of Mathematics in Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, as well as extensive career experience in the field of AI, said that the goal of AI applications within consumer products like home appliances is to create a more connected home with the ability to adapt to the needs of the homeowner, as well as learn to operate more efficiently with independence and no need to be prompted by the user. “People’s life becomes better by things being less expensive, things taking less time, things that do things more for you. And so if you’re sitting on your sofa at home, just look at the things that are around you that you interact with. Your TV is there, your dishwasher is there, your refrigerator, your stove; pieces of equipment that you interact with,” explained Graham. “So if we’re going to create a better user experience… how do we make your life even better in the future? How do we give them the capability to understand and work with you so that it saves you time and it saves you money?” He provided a couple of examples of AI-integrated home appliances that he envisions being on the horizon. The first being a fridge that can not only alert the user to what food they are low on but also analyzes the food they tend to buy and presents them with healthier recipes they could be cooking with those ingredients. Another example was a washing machine that could analyze the user’s daily routine and schedule itself to run not only when the sound will make the least impact on their daily life but also to know when electricity costs are lowest to select the optimal time to operate. But these goals come with their own challenges, said Graham. Notably the ability for devices with low computing power to operate advanced tasks while being able to communicate with all of the other connected devices in your home. And it is those challenges he said they plan to focus on in their research. “How do we look at that those things and apply it into these smaller devices? How do we optimize these networks? How do we strip them down to make them smaller and faster? How do we take them so that they can generalize, say they learn about one particular thing, and then can be applied to something else that’s very similar?” And Graham said his experiences in product development, as well as his experience in AI research (most notably as the founding member of the Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence), is something he plans to lean on heavily as he guides LG’s AI Lab through these challenges in his new position. Artificial Intelligence, Digital Transformation, Emerging Tech, Wireless & IoT AI, artificial intelligence, LG, Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence It's time for Canada to focus on the scale-up challenge CEOs are leaning on CIOs to do a lot more, says new report, but few CIOs are following through About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content The bad guys are arming themselves with AI, but so are we, says Darktrace’s country manager for Canada 10 women advancing AI in Canada Gartner says nearly half of privacy compliance technology to rely on AI by 2023 Inflection Point I An interview with AltaML’s managing director about AI’s role in shaping Calgary’s digital future Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada