https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-security-conference-offers-advice-healthcare-industry-warning-and-macro-phishing-alert/427834
Cyber Security Today – Security conference offers advice, healthcare industry warning and macro phishing alert | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – Security conference offers advice, healthcare industry warning and macro phishing alert Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: February 28th, 2020 Security conference offers advice, healthcare industry warning and macro phishing alert. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Friday February 28th. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanada.com. To hear the podcast click on the arrow below: Every year around this time a security company called RSA holds a huge week-long conference in San Francisco where over a hundred presenters tell terrible stories of hacks and what companies and governments should have done to prevent them. This week’s conference is no different. However, some speakers this year offered a glimmer of hope. At least one said many companies are getting better at finding cyber intruders before serious damage is done. And the time it takes to find them is dropping. Another speaker complained that organizations spend too much preparing for the most sophisticated attacks, while most incidents are due to very basic cybersecurity issues — like not patching fast enough — or errors by staff. Preparing for worst does not prepare you for the likely attacks, he said. Organizations are still going to get hacked. But as one speaker said, if firms make cyber security a priority and invest in it there will be progress. The healthcare industry may be the biggest slackers in the private sector when it comes to protecting data, if a recent study is accurate. A cybersecurity company called Censys says it did an internet scan of the 10 largest companies by revenue in seven major industries to see how many had unprotected databases and left their networks open to remote access. The healthcare industry, including pharmacies, hospitals, clinics, insurance providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers led the list with an average of 13 exposed databases per company. The energy industry proved the least at-risk with only one exposed database per company. The lesson appears to be that many companies aren’t training staff well enough to be careful with data, nor are they checking the Internet to see if staff are leaving sensitive data open to the world. Getting malware onto your computer isn’t enough for an infection. It has to be installed. One way to do that is by having Microsoft Office run what’s called a macro, which is an automatic routine. That’s why these days Microsoft Office has the macro feature disabled by default. Which means attackers have to find ways to trick you into enabling macros. The usual way is to send people an email with an infected Word or Excel document. When the victim clicks on it they get asked to enable macros or enable content. The latest in this series of scams was discovered by security company Palo Alto Networks, and it works like this: A victim gets an email with an attachment that appears to come from Norton LifeLock, a well-known security brand. It says, ‘You have received a protected document which contains personal information.’ To read it enable macros and enter your password. The password is included in the email. What’s the surprise inside this particular attack? Malware allowing a hacker a backdoor into your computer. Don’t fall for this scam. Beware of any messages that ask you to enable macros. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Hashtag Trending - Bank of Canada says no to crypto, Wal-Mart+, Reddit CEO calls TikTok 'parasitic' Canadian tech workers least likely to explore new careers, according to Indeed About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada