https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-remote-works-downsides-supercomputer-helps-covid-19-research-new-ipad-pro-goodies/428668
Hashtag Trending - Remote work's downsides; Supercomputer helps COVID-19 research; New iPad Pro goodies | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Remote work’s downsides; Supercomputer helps COVID-19 research; New iPad Pro goodies Staff @itworldca Published: March 19th, 2020 Many people appreciate working from home, but social media is highlighting the downsides, IBM’s supercomputer is already producing results in the ongoing fight against the coronavirus, and the iPad is pretty much a laptop after Apple unveils a keyboard and trackpad. There’s a lot of chatter happening right now about remote work, including its downsides. A column from the New York Times is making its way around LinkedIn, which highlights how productivity might improve during remote work, but creativity does not. Not only that, but isolation can stress people out. The column cites Steve Jobs, who was a fierce opponent of remote work, and frequently said how creativity flourishes in an office with other people. Tweet us @itworldca and let us know how you function at home. Does your discipline take a hit? Is it a dream come true? For me, it definitely improves productivity, but I absolutely find it hard to motivate myself when it comes to projects that require serious focus or creativity. That’s usually my cue to go for a short walk or at the very least, grab a bite to eat. Moving on, OneZero’s story about IBM’s supercomputer helping researchers fight the coronavirus pandemic is trending on Twitter. The IBM-built Summit supercomputer occupies the floor space of two tennis courts at the U.S Department of Energy’s Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee. It can perform 200 quadrillion calculations each second, which according to the publication, is roughly a million times more computing power than the average laptop. Researchers used that computing might to screen through a library of 8,000 known drug compounds to find those most likely to be effective against the coronavirus. While no cure has been found yet – that can take a very long time, sometimes years – researchers say some of the early results have been promising. And here we go! 💻 New MacBook Air:https://t.co/4moT48YrwT 📱 New iPad Pro: https://t.co/BuFA2RGmGb — Rene Ritchie (@reneritchie) March 18, 2020 And lastly, Apple dropped some announcements this week that turned heads on Twitter. Apple announced a new keyboard and trackpad for the new iPad Pro, alongside other new products including a $1,000 MacBook and an update to the Mac mini. The new iPad Pro includes a LiDAR scanner – I’m actually kind of curious how people will put that to good use – and boasts a quad-core i7 processor. Oh, and the keyboard and trackpad costs $400 U.S. That should be expected by now, right? That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Apple's new MacBook Air and iPad Pro bring surprsing upgrades Expect phishing attacks on remote workers to increase during COVID-19 pandemic Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada