https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/microsoft-acquires-mover-to-make-file-migration-to-microsoft-365-easier/423157
Microsoft acquires Mover to make file migration to Microsoft 365 easier | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Infrastructure Software Microsoft acquires Mover to make file migration to Microsoft 365 easier Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: October 22nd, 2019 Microsoft has acquired Canadian start-up Mover in an attempt to fulfill the ever-increasing customer demand to move content to the cloud. In an Oct. 21 blog post announcing the acquisition, Jeff Teper, corporate vice president for Office, SharePoint and OneDrive at Microsoft wrote, “Mover will help make it easier than ever for customers to migrate files to Microsoft 365.” In addition, the Mover team brings migration technology to advance Microsoft’s commitment to provide organizations of all sizes with the right tools, people and partners for easy migration to the Microsoft Cloud. Financial terms have not been disclosed. Mover had raised just over $1 million in private funding, according to crunchbase.com. This is Microsoft’s fourth cloud-related acquisition in recent months, following Blue Talon, jClarity, and Movere. Microsoft already has several options to support cloud file migrations. They include FastTrack, and offerings from its trusted partners, as well as the SharePoint Migration Tool for migrating content from on-premises SharePoint sites and file shares to Microsoft 365. Mover supports migration from several cloud service providers – including Google Drive, Dropbox, Box, and Egynyte – into SharePoint and OneDrive. Cloud, Infrastructure, Software cloud migration, Microsoft, mover, postmedia Hashtag Trending - Microsoft admits Android is best; AI solves Rubiks Cube; Selfies are for narcissists ServiceNow announces Bill McDermott as new CEO days after his exit from SAP About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada