https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-skype-for-business-replaced-macos-gets-free-update-with-high-sierra/396952
Hashtag Trending – Skype for Business replaced, macOS gets free update with High Sierra | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Emerging Tech Hashtag Trending – Skype for Business replaced, macOS gets free update with High Sierra Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: September 26th, 2017 Microsoft is replacing Skype for Business with its new Teams app. People are asking questions about what Equifax knew about its breach and when. And Apple releases a free upgrade for its desktop operating system called High Sierra. Trending on Google, Microsoft Teams is getting a major update at its Ignite conference in Orlando. The Slack competitor is angling to become the go-to place for business meetings using voice and video calls. To that end, Teams will now be replacing Skype of Business. This comes just two years after Skype for Business replaced Microsoft Lync. The rollout isn’t coming overnight though, with Microsoft giving no clear timeline for when Skype for Business will sunset. With the change, Microsoft Teams becomes the core communications tool in the world’s most famous productivity suite, Office 365, used by 60 million customers. Equifax acquired an identity protection company before making the hack public to profit from the theft. from technology On, Reddit, another new wrinkle to the ongoing Equifax breach saga. Redditors are pointing to an August 10th announcement from Equifax that it acquired ID Watchdog, an identity protection company. What’s questionable here is the timing of the acquisition. Equifax says it knew about the breach of 143 million customer identities at the end of July. But it didn’t disclose that until six weeks later. That means Equifax acquired this identity protection company during a period which it knew that many of its customers were at risk of identity theft. Equifax executives also sold $2 million of company stock in early August, but the firm says they were unaware of the intrusion. From Twitter, Apple released MacOS High Sierra on Monday. The upgrade is a free download. New features include Apple File System, said to make copying files and directories nearly instantaneous. High Efficiency Video Cording should allow more efficient storage and streaming of 4K-quality video. And more support for virtual reality has been added, with support for the HTC Vive headset coming to SteamVR on Mac later this year, and support for 360-degree video coming to Final Cut Pro X soon as well. Just remember to back up your Mac before doing that upgrade. Careers, Emerging Tech Apple, Equifax, hashtag trending, macos, Microsoft Teams, podcasts, Skype for Business macOS High Sierra: 5 under the hood new features SonicWall unwraps new firewall, Wave 2 access points About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada