https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-google-collects-healthcare-data-twitter-improves-election-honesty-youtube-yanks-unprofitable-channels/423885
Hashtag Trending – Google collects healthcare data; Twitter improves election honesty; YouTube yanks unprofitable channels | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Google collects healthcare data; Twitter improves election honesty; YouTube yanks unprofitable channels Tom Li @itworldca Published: November 12th, 2019 Listeners in Toronto are greeted with a fresh blanket of snow this morning. Before you head out to brave the cold white fluff, listen to us talk about Google collecting healthcare data, Twitter combating fake news prior to the U.K. election, and YouTube cutting unprofitable channels. Thank you for tuning into Hashtag Trending, it’s Tuesday, November 12th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending everywhere, the Wall Street Journal dropped a bombshell when it released a report detailing Google’s healthcare data collection practices. According to the report, Google and Ascension collected data on millions of Americans across 21 states without notifying doctors. The project, dubbed “Project Nightingale”, is designed to train AI algorithms to enhance patient care programs. Though it sounds like a crime, this project is actually legal under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996. Trending on Google, Twitter has announced further plans to reduce malicious political influence. In preparation for Britain’s December 12 election, Twitter has released a set of tools that would make it easier for its users to report fake news. In addition, it has released a new emoji to symbolize a more honest voting process. Last month, Twitter banned all political ads from its platform, citing that votes should be earned, not bought. Trending on Reddit, YouTube has released a baffling terms of service update. In an email to its users, the new service agreement would allow YouTube to terminate an account when it’s no longer commercially viable. This means that if a channel isn’t making enough money, YouTube can pull the plug without any acknowledgement. Creators are understandably angry, with many taking it to social media to vent their distress. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts OpenText acquires Carbonite for $1.42 billion Google publicizes Ascension partnership after healthcare data reveal About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada