https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/federal-court-extends-crtc-wholesale-pricing-suspension/424576
Federal court extends CRTC wholesale pricing suspension | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Mobility Federal court extends CRTC wholesale pricing suspension Tom Li @itworldca Published: November 29th, 2019 The Federal court has extended the suspension of CRTC’s proposed retroactive internet wholesale pricing until it can confirm a hearing status. According to the order, the Federal Court agreed that the respondent (CRTC) has not made compelling arguments against the issue and that the CRTC order could permanently distort the market in a way that’s difficult to heal. Thus, it will continue to suspend CRTC’s new pricings until it could reach a verdict on whether to grant the ISPs a hearing. The Federal court’s announcement last Friday has put resellers in an awkward spot, especially the ones that have preemptively lowered subscription pricing for their customers immediately following CRTC’s order. In September, reseller Teksavvy lowered subscription rates for 85 per cent of its customers. Distributel Communications, Start.ca and Oricom also followed suit, with each announcing their own free plan upgrades. If the Federal court blocks the CRTC pricing, then resellers would either need to retract the price drops to maintain profits or risk running into deficits. Related Story: Bell petition to cabinet: cheaper wholesale internet ‘yield no real benefits for Canadians’ After the CRTC proposed to cut internet wholesale capacity rates by between 15 to 43 per cent, facility-based internet service providers (ISPs) including Bell, Rogers, Shaw, and Quebecor, asked the federal court to block the change. Additionally, Bell Canada sent a petition to the cabinet detailing the new pricing’s potential detriments on its network development efforts. A Canaccord Genuity report estimated that Rogers, Bell, and Quebecor would be impacted the most by the CRTC’s new pricing. Their annual revenue would be reduced by CA$50 million, CA$45 million, and CA$25 million respectively. In its petition, Bell Canada wrote that the retroactive pricing could demand the major ISPs to pay up to CA$345 million to resellers, equating to nearly a year’s worth of HSA revenue. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Mobility Bell, Bell Canada, Canadian Internet, CRTC, Federal Court, government, postmedia, TekSavvy Small businesses need to take bigger security measures Government of Nova Scotia launches Digital Service team About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada