https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/shaping-canadas-aspirations-for-a-competitive-2030-digital-based-economy/424652
Shaping Canada's aspirations for a competitive 2030 digital based economy | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Shaping Canada’s aspirations for a competitive 2030 digital based economy IT World Canada @itworldca Published: December 4th, 2019 The Information and Communications Technology Council (ICTC) and IT World Canada (ITWC) are joining forces to shape the policy discourse on Canada’s vision for an advanced digital-based economy by 2030. Canada is witnessing a new era of industrialization, global trade, environmental trends, fierce competition, and socioeconomic shifts that are profoundly shaping the face of business while unlocking greater value for the economy and the society. At the heart of this changing landscape are transformative technologies that are disrupting traditional markets and empowering a new era of global business enablement for both industry and government. ITWC & ICTC will be launching a Pan-Canadian policy forum titled Digital Canada 2030 to explore potential insights to inform enterprises, entrepreneurs, policymakers, investors, educators, and job seekers on Canada’s prospects in the coming years. The themes explored will include: the makings of a competitive digital infrastructure the evolving landscape of digital trade the changing nature of work the construct of sustainable cities advancements in digital health the merits of an agile academic system the need for responsive digital governance A framing document outlining the potential discussion was released Dec. 3. “The next decade will be critical for determining Canada’s aspirations in a global context,” says Namir Anani, ICTC President and CEO. “Shaping Canada’s digital future for 2030 is pivotal for fostering sustainable businesses, attracting investment, and advancing Canada’s socioeconomic prospects in the coming years.“ “Too often we see planning cycles that last only a year or two,” says ITWC President Fawn Annan. “It’s understandable given the rapid change we face, but this initiative provides the opportunity for everyone to take a step back and look at the larger picture of where we’re going – or where we want to go.” ICTC & ITWC has begun targeting invitees and seeking the participation of key leaders from across Canada to help shape this discourse and set a clear vision for Canada in the coming years. The first of these discussions is planned for May 2020 in Ottawa. Individuals interested in being part of this initiative should connect Kevin Wennekes, Chief, Strategic Outreach Officer, ICTC at k.wennekes@ictc-ctic.ca or Steve Proctor, Vice President (Communications), ITWC at sproctor@itwc.ca. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation 2030, Canada, digital, economy, ictc, ITWC Hashtag Trending - Cyber Monday, Huawei’s new research centre, PlayStation turns 25 Phishing campaign continues to mimic Canada's biggest banks online Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Canadian ICT spending could shrink by 5 per cent in 2020: IDC Canada has highest wireless value among G7 nations: U.S. study Explore all the changes in Canadian financial services security in a single day Don’t waste a good crisis: 6 real-life lessons in digital transformation Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada