https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/huawei-mate-30-pro-set-to-debut-in-canada-without-google-services/428307
Huawei Mate 30 Pro set to debut in Canada in May | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Mobility Huawei Mate 30 Pro set to debut in Canada without Google apps Tom Li @itworldca Published: March 9th, 2020 The elusive Huawei Mate 30 Pro will finally be coming to Canada in May, as confirmed by Huawei in an interview with IT World Canada. As Huawei’s best offer in the high-end smartphones market, the Mate 30 Pro packs a HiSilicon Kirin 990 processor, 8GB of RAM, and up to 256 GB of storage behind a 6.53-inch OLED display. The display rolls off on the edge, a design Huawei calls the waterfall display. Since there’s no room for a volume rocker, users need to double-tap the edge to summon it on-screen. Notice how the screen curves around the edge, hence called the waterfall display. Photos by Tom Li. The Mate 30 Pro carries a center-aligned square camera module with major improvements over the last-gen. It has a 40MP wide-angle camera, a 40MP ultra-wide camera, an 8MP telephoto camera, and a time-of-flight (ToF) sensor. For sports and wildlife shooting the main camera can record at a mind-boggling 7,680 fps for a fraction of a second. The center-aligned circular camera module adds variety to the otherwise blocky body. Since Google is still banned from doing business with Huawei, the Mate 30 Pro will ship without Google Play Services. Instead, the phone will come with Huawei’s AppGallery. No volume rocker on the edges; just a simple power button. First launched on Feb 24, the Canadian version of Huawei’s AppGallery is still in beta, but Huawei told IT World Canada that it already has over 17,000 apps. Speaking from a global scale, Huawei said that its AppGallery has been gaining 5,000 new apps per week. In addition, the company touted that there are now 26 million monthly active AppGallery users in Europe. Despite the ban, Huawei’s EMUI 10 operating system is still built on Android 10, albeit built with the Android Open Source Project (AOSP). While 5G is slowly being rolled out in Canada, Huawei has decided against releasing a 5G-equipped Mate 30 Pro in Canada. Huawei has yet to announce an exact release date or official Canadian pricing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Mobility Huawei, Huawei Canada, postmedia, smartphones How IT leaders can prepare for COVID-19 challenges Hashtag Trending - Facebook facing massive fines; Amazon to sell cashier-less tech; Wrong place at the wrong time About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei Watch GT 2 ups the ante in functionality Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada