https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canadas-privacy-commissioner-wants-answers-from-facebook-regarding-cambridge-analytica-data-breach/402957
Canada's Privacy Commissioner wants answers from Facebook regarding Cambridge Analytica data breach | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Privacy & Security Public Sector Canada’s Privacy Commissioner wants answers from Facebook regarding Cambridge Analytica data breach Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: March 20th, 2018 Privacy Commissioner of Canada Daniel Therrien issued a statement to CTV News and other media yesterday saying that it plans to reach out to Facebook regarding the misuse of its data by a third-party firm. The Privacy Commissioner of Canada today issued this statement re: @facebook scandal pic.twitter.com/RY2loCuQL3 — Michel Boyer (@BoyerMichel) March 19, 2018 Cambridge Analytica, a U.K.-based company has been in media reports since the weekend with former employer-turned-whistleblower and Canadian Chris Wylie spoke out. In work it conducted for the campaign of U.S. President Donald Trump, the firm harvested Facebook data using a third-party app to build up personality profiles on voters in order to target them with political ads. Cambridge Analytica attained the data under the guise of conducting academic research, and then allegedly violated the terms of its agreements with Facebook, according to Wylie’s accounts to media. Facebook no longer allows third-party apps to collect data in this way, and it knew of the data breach with Cambridge Analytics two years ago, according to Wylie. In the Privacy Commissioner’s statement, Therrien points out that Canada’s privacy law that applies to the private sector, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA), doesn’t apply to political parties. “Ultimately, our goal is to ensure that the privacy rights of Canadian Facebook users are protected,” he says. Therrien’s comments came after U.K. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham announced her office was launching an investigation into Facebook over the matter. Denham was previously the assistant privacy commissioner of Canada in from 2007-2011, and then the Privacy Commissioner of British Columbia until 2016. Denham is seeking a warrant to search the office of the London headquarters of Cambridge Analytica, BNN reports. The investigation will also ask whether Facebook did enough to respond to the data breach after learning about it. Cambridge Analytics and denied any misuse of data reported in the media, and says it deleted the Facebook data in 2014. This isn’t the first time that Facebook has drawn the attention of Canada’s Privacy Commissioner. Here are a few past investigations into Canada’s most popular social network: July 15, 2008 – (During Denham’s tenure in the federal office as assistant commissioner): a report issued by the commissioner’s office found that Facebook was in violation of Canada’s Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA). April 4, 2012 – Privacy Commissioner of Canada Jennifer Stoddart reported on investigations into three separate complaints against Facebook. It found Facebook needed to be more proactive about ensuring apps were privacy-compliant before rolling them out to users. July 11, 2013 – The Privacy Commissioner’s office releases a report on a complaint from a mother who’s daughter had been impersonated on Facebook. Facebook agreed to examine and investigate cases of impersonation and find ways to help affected victims reclaim their online identity. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Privacy & Security, Public Sector data breach, Donald Trump, Facebook, PIPEDA, Privacy Comissioner of Canada 25 years of the Canadian CIO: A hero's tale Hashtag Trending - Uber's fatal crash, EU to investigate Facebook, Apple is finally making its own screens About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Koodo admits February data breach, data already being sold on dark web Gartner says nearly half of privacy compliance technology to rely on AI by 2023 Shopify joins Facebook’s Libra Association Journalist who uncovered Cambridge Analytica data scandal to deliver keynote at True North Festival Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada