https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/only-a-select-few-are-allowed-to-build-apps-related-to-covid-19-says-apple/428528
Only a select few are allowed to build apps related to COVID-19, says Apple | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. cracked-apple Software Only a select few are allowed to build apps related to COVID-19, says Apple Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: March 16th, 2020 As the world fights COVID-19 pandemic, communities around the world are trusting apps to be their news sources and Apple says it’s working hard to ensure the credibility of health and safety information. The company says it’s evaluating apps related to COVID-19 critically to make sure that the developers presenting the apps are from recognized entities such as government organizations, educational or medical institutions and that data sources are reputable. The company is allowing only developers that belong to one of the aforementioned entities to submit an app related to COVID-19. In order to fast forward the process, Apple is encouraging eligible developers to select “Time-Sensitive Event” on the expedite request form to ensure prioritized review since App Store review may take longer. Moreover, those planning to distribute only free apps on the App Store can request Apple to have their annual membership fee waived if based in an eligible country. Clients or organizations are required to add their developers on to the development team of their Apple Developer account. Clients that do not have an Apple Developer account yet can enroll in the Apple Developer Program. The company’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic has been wide-ranging so far. Apple says its donations to the cause have reached $15 million worldwide. The company has also cancelled its in-person Worldwide Developers Conference, turning it into an online-only event. In addition, all of its stores outside of Greater China will remain closed until March 27. The company’s online stores are, however, open at www.apple.com, or you can download the Apple Store app on the App Store. Customers can visit support.apple.com for service and support. Moreover, a new COVID-19 section has been launched by the company which provides users with the latest verified reporting from trusted news outlets. Software Apple, COVID-19 Maple launches free online screening and consultation solution in response to COVID-19 Hashtag Trending - Google tackles COVID-19 with new website; Microsoft Teams goes down; Bill Gates exits Microsoft’s board About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Insulating your business from COVID-19 impacts TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Telus says it’s providing free high-speed internet to low-income families for 60 days in response to COVID-29 Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada