https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/microsoft-says-teams-has-hit-20-million-daily-users/424134
Microsoft says Teams has hit 20 million daily users | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Mobility Microsoft says Teams has hit 20 million daily users Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: November 19th, 2019 The battle between Slack and Microsoft Teams continues, and it now looks like Microsoft is gaining the upper hand, according to numbers released by the company today. As of Tuesday, Microsoft said in a press release it has garnered over 20 million daily users on its communications platform, which comes parceled into Microsoft’s Office 365 subscription bundle. Some in the industry, including Hunter Willis, the product marketing manager at AvePoint, expect this growth to continue. “We predict this impressive growth rate for Microsoft Teams will continue unabated in 2020. Twenty million active daily users is impressive, but it represents only 10 per cent of the more than 200 million Office 365 commercial users. From this perspective, it’s hard to see how any enterprise productivity software has stronger growth potential in 2020,” said Willis. Additionally, Willis pointed out the fact that Microsoft has made Teams its primary focus within the Office 365 suite has translated into significant investments being made to bring emerging technologies like bots into the platform. These numbers may need to be taken with a grain of salt, as Microsoft’s methods of counting users has been called into question in the past, and its own vice-president, Jared Spataro, confirmed that all it takes for a user to be counted is starting a chat, placing a call, sharing a file, editing a document or participating in a meeting through Teams. That being said, this is a large jump from the 13 million users that it reported in July of this year and an even larger jump from the 10 million total users that Slack reported in October. Just last month alone, Teams users participated in over 27 million voice and video meetings and performed over 200 million actions on files stored in Teams. Much of these numbers seem to be attributable to the large enterprises, like Alcoa, L’Oreal and Telefonica, currently using Teams; as Microsoft reported that over 350 companies had at least 10,000 employees each on Teams in October. Slack – which launched two years prior to the 2016 launch of Teams – seems to be already feeling the hit of this news as its shares have dropped as much as 10 per cent today. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Mobility collaboration, Microsoft, Microsoft Teams, Slack Intel details 'Ponte Vecchio' graphics processor New Bell patent details LTE-connected smartband About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Suddenly working from home and need a solution that works? Here are some options Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada