https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-text-message-trouble-and-another-parcel-courier-scam/407726
Cyber Security Today: Text message trouble, and another parcel courier scam | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today: Text message trouble, and another parcel courier scam Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: August 3rd, 2018 Beware of links to malware in SMS texts, Reddit breach shows its time for web sites to stop using SMS for two-factor authentication and an animation in a package delivery scam means trouble. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Friday August 3rd. To hear the podcast, click on the arrow below: Today I’m going to talk a bit about the risks of text messages on mobile devices. Also called SMS messages, they’re a great way to save data charges for messaging people. They’re also a great way for scammers to trick you into being attacked. Here’s how it works: You get a text. The message says something like ‘We removed abusive content from your Facebook account. Visit this site.’ It includes a URL that seems to be from Facebook. If you click on the link, a login that looks like Facebook appears. If you sign in, you’ve given the attacker your username and password. Always be careful when people send you links – either on your mobile device or desktop computer – whether its by email or text. And be very suspicious if you get asked to log into a site after clicking on a link. My thanks to the SANS Institute for this tip. Text messaging is also used by some web sites for what’s called two-factor confirmation authentication of logins. You try to sign in from a device the site isn’t familiar with, the site texts you a four-digit code to confirm you’re who you say you are. Unfortunately, the SMS text messaging system, which is run by cell phone companies, isn’t as secure as it should be. Reddit found that out when it recently discovered some of its systems had been hacked, an event it admitted to this week. The way the attacker got in was intercepting the SMS confirmation code texted to a Reddit employee. Reddit has now changed its two-factor security system to require staff and subscribers to use an authentication app, like Google Authenticator, to send confirmation numbers. So the confirmation code appears on the secure app. You should check with the sites you use to see if they offer this option. If not, see if the site offers another way of confirmation other than text. For example, some sites will phone a user, with an automated voice reading off the code. Certainly you should urge sites you use to stop using text messaging for two-factor authentication. Related Articles Reddit breach shows limits of SMS-based two-factor authentication The announcement today from Reddit that some of its systems were comprised even though they were protected with two-factor authentication... August 1st, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Finally, another tip from the SANS Institute: Malware buried in email doesn’t always look like a Microsoft Word message. A recent example is a common scam, an email from a package delivery company claiming a package is ready for you to pick up. Just click on the link to track your package. If you click, and a zipped file appears. If you click inside on a file called ‘Arrival notification,’ an animation pops up. In this case it looks like a dancing dinosaur. Don’t laugh. You’ve been hacked. In one case the malware will copy down anything you type – like passwords. Or it could be another type of malware. So again, read your email and text messages s-l-o-w-l-y. And think before you click on a link. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Play, or add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing. Thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Canada watching for cyber threats to 2019 election, says government Vector Institute for AI to get a new home in U of T 'innovation centre' About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada