https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ericsson-announces-new-ai-innovation-hub-in-montreal/417670
Ericsson announces new AI innovation hub in Montreal | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Wireless & IoT Ericsson announces new AI innovation hub in Montreal Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: May 3rd, 2019 Ericsson has joined the growing AI technology hub in Montreal, as it announced its new Global Artificial Intelligence Accelerator (GAIA) innovation hub in Montréal. The hub will specialize in the research and development of artificial intelligence and automation, with a focus on AI technology that would work in conjunction with 5G technology; and Ericsson is hoping it can leverage the existing eco-system of AI development in the city in its own development. “We are excited to establish the Montréal GAIA to both leverage and collaborate with the local AI ecosystem and customers in order to collectively drive industrialization of new opportunities,” said Graham Osborne, the head of Ericsson Canada. “Maturing AI capabilities will have a significant impact on 5G and existing networks’ automation and evolution. The leadership shown by governments in Canada has helped create a robust Montréal AI ecosystem with world-class talent from which we can recruit.” Ericsson has announced that its newest GAIA innovation hub will create more than 30 new jobs in 2019 including data scientists, engineers, AI/machine learning (ML) architects, and software developers. This is in addition to the over 1,000 workers that Ericsson already employs in its Montreal location, many of which work in Ericsson’s R&D and Services Centre. This newest hub joins a growing list of GAIA innovation hubs that Ericsson has, including in the United States, Sweden, and India. Between all of its GAIA innovation hubs, Ericsson employs more than 300 data scientists, data engineers, ML/AI architects, and software developers. The Montreal area has been lauded as an emerging global AI hub, and already boasts AI labs from Facebook, Microsoft, Samsung, and many more. Artificial Intelligence, Wireless & IoT AI, artificial intelligence, Ericsson Cyber Security Today: Churches as cyber victims, Outlook attacks, a phony Android game site, news on password managers. Huawei P30 Pro review: a telescope in your pocket About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content The bad guys are arming themselves with AI, but so are we, says Darktrace’s country manager for Canada 10 women advancing AI in Canada Ericsson announces partnership with Carleton University to research 5G tech Gartner says nearly half of privacy compliance technology to rely on AI by 2023 Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada