https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/itac-launches-new-corporate-brand-technation/424701
ITAC launches new corporate brand, Technation | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Leadership Marketing ITAC launches new corporate brand, Technation Staff @itworldca Published: December 3rd, 2019 The Information Technology Association of Canada (ITAC) is debuting a new brand and logo, representing what the organization describes as an evolution of its service offerings. The new ITAC brand, Technation, was announced at the ITAC Ingenious Awards Program gala last week. According to the association, the new name, logo, and tagline – Uniting technology, government and community for Canada’s future – came about after a strategic branding process that looked at creating an “innovative leader-brand for today, and into the future.” The process included member, stakeholder, and industry consultations and strategic planning sessions. “We feel Canada as a nation must make a serious choice to embrace technology across all of our public and industry sector’s or we stand a chance of losing our global competitiveness,” explained Angela Mondou, president and CEO, ITAC. “Technation represents the necessary power of collaboration across industry, government, academia, and community required to keep Canada future-ready as a technology leader. It also clearly demonstrates our role as a leader in Canada’s ever-evolving digital economy.” Kevin Peesker, president of Microsoft Canada, applauded the change. “The Canadian tech industry has changed and evolved significantly over the history of ITAC. It is our belief that Canada will be a global leader in technology and innovation if we work together with passion and vision. We are thrilled with the evolution ITAC and look forward to our Association’s future as Technation,” he said. ITAC says it will roll-out the new identity in January 2020 through to May 2020. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership, Marketing Ingenious Awards 2019, itac Hashtag Trending - Uber/Lyft prices spike, Netflix and chill Thanksgiving, Losing Lena Tech companies are beyond government control, Edward Snowden tells Ontario college administrators Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Humber River Hospital’s iPlan solution helps reduce ALC days by 4,460 days Virtual Visits exceeds in-person care experience 30% of the time Mastering IoT in the construction field pays off for PCL Construction EQ Active Brain Tracking: Software for mental fitness Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada