https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-dec-26-2018-boxing-day-online-shopping-advice/413078
Cyber Security Today: Dec. 26, 2018 — Boxing Day online shopping advice | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today: Dec. 26, 2018 — Boxing Day online shopping advice Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: December 26th, 2018 Going online today for great sales? Make sure you’re not only equipped to buy, but also to buy safely. Here’s some tips to remember. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. To hear the podcast click on the arrow below: In Canada, today is Boxing Day, when many retailers offer in-store and online discounts on a wide range of products. I expect there will be big sales in the U.S. as well. Which means you’ve not only to shop smart, you’ve also got to shop safely. Got a product in mind and doing an Internet search for the best price? Well, beware of prices that are too good to be true. Online scammers set up dummy websites and ads offering popular items far below market value. They may send you a used product – or nothing — because what they want is your credit card number. So first, can you trust the site? Is it a real site of a trusted retailer or a fake copy of the company’s site? When you go to pay, does the page send you to an odd payment site? If you need to set up an account to buy, use a unique and strong password. And never pay for items purchased online with wire transfers, money orders or cash. Stay Safe Online offers these shopping tips Get Cyber Safe offers these tips for protecting your online identity Finally, if you’re buying an Internet-connected device after you get it change the default password to something strong that you don’t use on other devices, and make sure On Friday I’ll talk in more detail about how to make sure everything you own that connects is safe. Until then, have a great holiday. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Hashtag Trending - SaaS providers will grow; hybrid-cloud emerges the winner; battle for desktops; Hashtag Trending - Voice-first fragmentation, Alexa in your ear, Alexa in your boardroom About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada