https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/td-bank-chooses-microsoft-azure-says-hyperscalers-have-upped-their-game/417368
TD Bank chooses Microsoft Azure, says hyperscalers have 'upped their game' | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Digital Transformation TD Bank chooses Microsoft Azure, says hyperscalers have ‘upped their game’ Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: April 29th, 2019 Microsoft Azure has become TD Bank Group’s go-to cloud provider for all of its big data and artificial intelligence (AI) needs, the bank announced recently, further signaling large enterprises’ increasing comfort around the public cloud environment. “We’ve been working on the cloud for some time, and partnering with Microsoft for some time,” Jeff Henderson, executive vice-president and CIO for TD Bank, tells IT World Canada. TD Bank’s shift to cloud began five years ago, beginning with a private cloud infrastructure that not only made a lot of the behind-the-scenes operations run more smoothly, but also served as the training wheels for the inevitable move to the public cloud on Azure. Henderson describes it as the “crawl, walk and run” model, a strict approach to innovation the company has stuck to for years. Today, TD Bank has approximately 250 applications running on its private cloud, and more than 85,000 employees using Office 365, a move that’s made completing work from mobile devices a lot easier and secure. TD Securities, the wholesale division of TD Bank Group, currently uses the cloud to streamline pricing and risk management practices. Moving those operations to Azure means the bank has faster access to high-performance analytics, allowing them to respond faster to client pricing requests. The move to Azure makes sense today, says Henderson, but it wasn’t always like that. Large institutions like theirs have had reservations about the public cloud, largely due to the uncertainty around security and the final whereabouts of data that’s uploaded to the public cloud. But Microsoft’s two Canadian data centres – one in central Canada the other on the East Coast – means people’s data isn’t floating around south of the border, it stays in Canada. “We would never sacrifice safety, security and privacy to tap into the benefits cloud provides,” says Henderson. “But public cloud providers have upped their game by giving us the tools, and supporting those tools, which are necessary to meet our control standards.” An important example of this is Microsoft’s introduction of a solution called Hold Your Own Key in 2016. It delivers customers limited Azure Information Protection – technology for classifying and protecting sensitive data uploaded to Azure – capabilities in an on-premises environment. Microsoft doesn’t have the ability to decrypt this data, only the customer does, or in this case, TD Bank. Jeff Martin, TD Bank’s chief technology officer, applauds the enhancements to Azure over the years, but it doesn’t mean the bank can begin experimenting with the dozens of other cloud offerings in Azure, he adds. “The bank has to have complete control over all applications. We’re not randomly using or experimenting with everything [Azure] has to offer. Quite the opposite,” he explains. Microsoft has received a lot more business from financial institutions in Canada, says Chris Barry, vice-president of enterprise and commercial sales at Microsoft Canada. “TD Bank is a great example of the financial services’ transformation in Canada. We expect to see that accelerate in the coming years,” he says, adding Microsoft is also investing billions in edge computing to make it easier, and more secure, to collect data from endpoint devices. In April 2018, Microsoft announced it was planning to invest $5 billion in the IoT over the next four years, a lot of which will go towards new edge computing solutions. Cloud, Digital Transformation azure, TD Bank Hashtag Trending - Twitter won't ban white supremacists; Amazon's robo-firing; UBC engineers develop anti-ice windshield material SAS Global Forum: Jim Goodnight emphasizes importance of harnessing data to change the world About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content City of Ottawa to launch 311 AI chatbot powered by Microsoft’s Power Virtual Agent Azure shows no sign of slowing down, according to Microsoft’s Q1 2020 earnings call TD launches self-serve block features for credit cards Collision 2019: TD calls for banks to collaborate more with fintech startups on AI solutions Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada