https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-bitcoin-price-jump-telecoms-get-hacked-bell-increases-fees/419518
Hashtag Trending – Bitcoin price jump; telecoms get hacked; Bell increases fees | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Infrastructure Hashtag Trending – Bitcoin price jump; telecoms get hacked; Bell increases fees Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: June 27th, 2019 Bitcoin prices makes a comeback, massive telecom attack linked to Chinese hackers, Bell increases connection fee. Trending on LinkedIn, the volatile value of Bitcoin has risen above $11,000, which is roughly 170 per cent of its value at the beginning of the year. Just this May, Bitcoin’s value saw one of its steepest dips of all time, dropping by $1,700 in a single day. The rise in pricing could be attributed to many factors including Facebook’s recently released Libra cryptocurrency as well as supply constraints. Trending on Google, the Isreali security firm Cybereason revealed a massive telecom data breach. Dubbed Operation Soft Cell, the attack targeted 10 telecom companies over a span of at least seven years. The hackers, which Cyberreason says are linked to China, stole detailed call information of users and even gained unrestricted access to the domain controller. As the investigation is still on-going, Cybereason warns that an attack of this magnitude could potentially cripple a network’s operation if the attacker chooses to do so. Lastly, trending on Google, Bell Mobility is raising its connection fee from $35 to $40. A connection fee is a single payment for connecting an existing phone number to Bell’s networks. This $5 increase is the second time the carrier has raised its connection fee within a year. The last increase was in October 2018, also by $5. Bell raising its wireless connection fee to $40 That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Careers, Infrastructure hashtag trending, podcasts Massive telecommunication data breach linked to Chinese hackers, says Israeli security firm FedDev Ontario invests $5 million for new incubator lab in Markham About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada