https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/precribeit-announces-agreement-with-intrahealth-canada-ltd/419243
PrecribeIT announces agreement with Intrahealth Canada | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Emerging Tech PrecribeIT announces agreement with Intrahealth Canada Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: June 20th, 2019 PrescribeIT, Canada Health Infoway’s e-prescription service, announced it has reached an agreement with Intrahealth Canada Ltd. to add to its list of electronic medical record (EMR) vendors. This brings PrescribeIT’s list of EMR vendors to 12. “With every software vendor that comes on board into our program, then the users of that platform benefit from PrescribeIT,” said Alvaro Mestre, Canada Health Infoway’s vice-president of account management, in an interview with IT World Canada. “It’s part of our strategy to expand the service into territories and provinces.” Based out of Vancouver, Intrahealth serves primary care markets in British Columbia and New Brunswick, as well as community health clinics in Ontario. “We are thrilled to begin offering PrescribeIT through our EMR,” said Silvio Labriola, the general manager of Intrahealth, in a press release. “This e-prescribing service is a perfect fit for our patient-first approach to using technology to reduce costs and improve convenience, while also improving services for the health care provider community.” Intrahealth, which is based in Vancouver, serves primary care markets in New Brunswick and British Columbia, as well as community health clinics in Ontario. This ties in closely with PrescribeIT’s ongoing launch in New Brunswick through the ACCESS Atlantic initiative. PrescribeIT already operates in New Brunswick, Alberta, and Ontario. Agreements with the other seven provinces and territories are set to roll out in the near future. For some of the more sparsely populated areas, such as in the territories, the modernization of medical practices is key to being able to provide services with understaffed teams. “It does help in any community, remote or not. Where again, primary care providers and pharmacists need to communicate,” explained Mestre. “So even if you’re in a let’s say sparsely populated area, where maybe you have a GP that is covering a large territory, via PrescribeIT as prescribed will be able to communicate to any pharmacy within that territory, without paper and without faxing.” Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Emerging Tech Canada Health Infoway, e-prescriptions, healthcare, PrescribeIT Sidewalk Toronto: While waiting for plan, consider these conflicting papers Kobo: 10 years of Canadian innovation About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Azure NetApp files become HIPAA compliant Maple launches free online screening and consultation solution in response to COVID-19 Ottawa Hospital announces partnership to democratize its data throughout the organization Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada