https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/azure-netapp-files-become-hipaa-compliant/428632
Azure NetApp files become HIPAA compliant | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Public Sector Azure NetApp files become HIPAA compliant Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: March 18th, 2020 By 2025, healthcare will have surpassed the media and entertainment sector when it comes to data created, making a recent announcement from NetApp a significant one. Azure Netapp Files is now ready for the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), NetApp recently announced in a blog post. This means that patient data protected under HIPAA is now covered under the Microsoft Business Associate Agreements (BAA), having undergone audits conducted by accredited independent auditors for the Microsoft ISO/IEC 27001 certification. “Data is vital to the healthcare industry. As 2020 unfolds, the trend toward embracing the value of data – both historical and active – and using insights garnered from that data to deliver better, more accurate patient outcomes will intensify. Azure NetApp Files is the ideal platform to support data-driven care because it’s fast, scalable, simple to use, and secure,” according to Dave Nesvisky, vice-president of NetApp’s Healthcare division, who was quoted in NetApp’s blog post about the announcement. The HIPAA law governs the use, disclosure, and safeguarding of protected health information (PHI) for healthcare providers and related healthcare organizations, as well as associates, including the cloud service providers, that process PHI on their behalf. In March 2018, Microsoft released automation for HIPAA/HITRUST compliance in the form of its new Azure Security and Compliance Blueprint for HIPAA/HITRUST – Health Data & AI. Azure Blueprints by Microsoft are resources to help build and launch cloud-powered applications that comply with stringent regulations and standards. Included in the blueprints are reference architectures, compliance guidance and deployment scripts. Cloud, Public Sector Data, healthcare, HIPAA Suddenly working from home and need a solution that works? Here are some options Apple's new MacBook Air and iPad Pro bring surprsing upgrades About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Maple launches free online screening and consultation solution in response to COVID-19 Ottawa Hospital announces partnership to democratize its data throughout the organization Ontario’s healthcare shakeup attracting cyberattacks, says security expert Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada