https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/huawei-launches-mate-xs-foldable-smartphone/427667
Huawei launches Mate Xs foldable smartphone | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Huawei launches Mate Xs foldable smartphone Tom Li @itworldca Published: February 24th, 2020 Huawei today launched its Mate Xs foldable smartphone, an improvement over the first-generation Huawei Mate X. The Huawei Mate Xs is Huawei’s second-generation foldable smartphone. The display unfolds into a unified 8-inch display. Huawei has updated the display surface using a new double-layer optical polyamide, which it touts to be 30 per cent more durable than the previous generation. The hinge has also been made more durable and should snap much snappier. Huawei didn’t disclose the age of the device at the event, but I didn’t see a visible crease at the hinge. In contrast to most other smartphones that collapse the display onto itself, the Huawei Mate Xs folds outwards, exposing the display. When closed, the rear half of the display is disabled, leaving the front side for use. The single speaker fires from the base. No, there isn’t a headphone jack. Its camera array is composed of a 40MP wide-angle camera with an RYYB sensor, which means that it should have the same stellar low-light performance as the P30 Pro. The main sensor is flanked by an 8MP telephoto camera and a 12MP telephoto camera. The Huawei Mate Xs has a vertical camera array. The fourth sensor is a time-of-flight (ToF) sensor. In addition, the rear cover has been updated with a metal alloy that’s 30 per cent harder than titanium. We don’t know the age of the device, but we couldn’t see a visible crease on the display at the hinge. Internally, the system-on-chip (SoC) has been updated from the Huawei Kirin 980 SoC to the Huawei 990 SoC with an integrated 5G modem. According to the presentation, the Kirin 990 boasts 23 per cent faster processor performance, 39 per cent faster graphics, and 230 per cent uplift in neural processor performance. Other main hardware components include 8GB of RAM and 512GB of storage. When folded, the Mate Xs is just a tad thicker and longer than the Pixel 4 XL. The phone comes with two batteries with a combined 4,500mAh capacity. It also supports 55W charging, which Huawei Chairman Richard Yu said can amp it up to 85 per cent in 30 minutes. Like its predecessor, the Mate Xs also supports reverse wireless charging. The USB-C charging port is located at the underside of the thicker edge where the camera resides. Although Google still isn’t talking to Huawei due to the U.S. ban, Huawei’s EMUI 10 is still based on an open-source version of Android, which is what’s installed on the Mate Xs. Because it lacks Google Play services, Huawei also heavily emphasized the growth of its App Gallery, an alternative to the Google Play Store. Unfolded, the Mate Xs’ behemoth 8-inch display dwarfs the Pixel 4XL. The Huawei Mate Xs will be available globally next month for $2,499 Euros. Huawei says that it’s still planning a potential Canadian release. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure Canadian telecommunications, foldable smartphones, Huawei Analytical disease tracking has come a long way since SARS, said SAS's director of government practice Why pizza party security training doesn’t cut it anymore About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Huawei Watch GT 2 ups the ante in functionality Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone Huawei Mate 30 Pro set to debut in Canada without Google apps Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada