https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/panasonic-names-michael-moskowitz-new-north-american-chairman-and-ceo/420649
Panasonic names Michael Moskowitz new North American chairman and CEO | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Leadership Panasonic names Michael Moskowitz new North American chairman and CEO Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: August 6th, 2019 A Canadian is set to take command of Panasonic Corporation’s North American business for the first time in history. The principal subsidiary of the Japanese-based company today announced the appointment of Michael Moskowitz as the new chairman and chief executive officer. Michael Moskowitz, the new chairman and CEO of Panasonic Corp. of North America. Credit: LinkedIn Moskowitz had served previously as the president of Panasonic Canada Inc. and Panasonic Consumer Electronics Company, and will take that experience, as well as previous career experience as an executive at Sirius XM Canada Holdings Inc., into his new role. “I am humbled and excited to take on this new role,” Moskowitz said in a press release. “Panasonic Corporation of North America has successfully undergone an incredible transformation, redefining the relationships we enjoy with our B2B customers through innovation and customer-centricity – cornerstones of our future success. That transformation was made possible by leaders like Tom Gebhardt, to whom we owe a debt of gratitude.” Tom Gebhardt had served in this role before announcing he was leaving the company, which led to the change in leadership. “It is with a heavy heart that I leave a place that has been my home for most of my life as well as the team who made every day and every professional challenge a thrilling opportunity,” Gebhardt said. “I leave confident that the company is well-positioned to capitalize on the technology trends that will help our customers compete and succeed in today’s ever-changing marketplace. My confidence is strengthened by Michael’s business acumen and vision as well as his steady and inspiring leadership.” Along with this announcement, it is expected that further changes in leadership will be announced for Panasonic Canada and Panasonic Consumer Electronics of America to fill the gap being left behind by Moskowitz. “The board of directors and I are excited to see Michael lend his great energy and vision to building on the momentum that Tom has created in an increasingly important market for Panasonic,” said Kazuhiro Tsuga, president of Panasonic Corporation. “We wish both leaders great success, and we thank Tom for his leadership and his many contributions throughout a distinguished career.” Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership Panasonic Hashtag Trending - Canada gets internet code of conduct; Pentagon testing surveillance balloons; Amazon is still listening MSI WS75 workstation laptop review: slim yet mighty About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Panasonic launches new Toughbook 55 in Canada Hashtag Trending – A brewing tech cold war, Facebook takes on fake accounts, Comcast eyes healthcare The top 10 automotive news stories from CES 2018 Google’s eSIMs on the Pixel are just the beginning Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada