https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/trend-micro-admits-staffer-stole-and-sold-customer-data/423704
Trend Micro admits staffer stole and sold customer data | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Trend Micro admits staffer stole and sold customer data Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: November 6th, 2019 One of the biggest worries of CEOs and CISOs is that an employee will access and sell customer data. The odds of an insider threat aren’t great – breach statistics compiled over a decade by Verizon show that about one-third of breaches of security controls are caused by staff – but it’s still there. So the IT industry was surprised on Tuesday when international security vendor Trend Micro acknowledged that a staff member had gone rogue. In a statement, the company said “some personal data of an isolated number of customers of our consumer product” had been sold by an unnamed staffer who managed to fraudulently “bypass our sophisticated controls.” What the thief got was access to a customer support database that contained names, email addresses, Trend Micro support ticket numbers, and in some instances, telephone numbers. The information was sold to an unknown person or persons. The company realized something was wrong in August when it was told some people using its home security solution had received scam calls by people impersonating Trend Micro support personnel. An investigation was started but it was only until the end of last month when it was able to find the culprit. There are no indications that information such as financial or credit payment information was involved, or that any data from our business or government customers was improperly accessed, the company said. Related story: Public Safety Canada issues guide to lowering insider threat Based in Tokyo, Trend Micro sells around the world. There is no indication in the release which country or countries victims were located. According to SecurityWeek, the company has determined less than one per cent of the 12 million customers using its consumer solutions were affected, which could mean thousands of people. “If you have purchased our consumer product, you should know that Trend Micro will never call you unexpectedly,” the statement says. “If a support call is to be made, it will be scheduled in advance. If you receive an unexpected phone call claiming to be from Trend Micro, hang up and report the incident to Trend Micro support.” While insider attacks aren’t as common as threats from outside the firewall, they can be just as deadly if not more because some employees know exactly where sensitive (and valuable) data is. In June, Quebec-based financial services giant Desjardins Group acknowledged an insider had stolen information on 2.7 million consumer and business customers of its credit union. Last week the company corrected that number, saying data on all of its 4.2 million consumer customers had been exfiltrated. Related story: Trusted insiders are now the most serious threat Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security data breach, security strategies, Trend Micro Cyber Security Today - Banking security incidents and a mobile phone scam warning City of Ottawa to launch 311 AI chatbot powered by Microsoft's Power Virtual Agent About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited The aftermath of a data breach and how to secure your business Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada