https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/dells-new-enterprise-laptop-is-powered-by-googles-chrome-os/421354
Dell's new enterprise laptop is powered by Google's Chrome OS | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Mobility Dell’s new enterprise laptop is powered by Google’s Chrome OS Tom Li @itworldca Published: August 28th, 2019 Dell recently released the Latitude 5300 2-in-1 and 5400 clamshell Chromebook Enterprise laptops powered by Chrome OS. Oriented towards enterprise, the new Latitude Chromebooks have several features that distinguish them from an average Chromebook, one of which being ruggedness. With a carbon fibre chassis, the Dell Latitude 5000 series has passed 17 STD-MIL tests. Its FHD 1080p display is protected with Corning’s Gorilla Glass, a premium glass used for high-end mobile devices. Both devices come with touch and non-touch display options. The Latitude 5000 Chromebook Enterprise series come in 13-inch and 14-inch form factors. They’re powered by an Intel Celeron, Core i3, i5, or i7 processor, up to 32GB of RAM, up to 1TB of storage, and a 68Wh battery. These high-performance hardware stand in stark contrast to traditional Chromebooks, which only include the bare minimum to work in the cloud. In terms of connectivity, it’s equipped with two USB-A 3.1 ports, one USB-C 3.1 port, one HDMI port, and an Ethernet port. All models also support LTE connectivity. Chrome OS is favored among groups that need a lightweight operating system to tackle day-to-day productivity workloads. In addition, devices running Chrome OS tend to be affordable and portable. With Chrome Enterprise Upgrade support, IT admins can easily enforce group policies. These advantages make Chromebooks massively popular in the education sector, and its presence is gaining notice in the enterprise as well, particularly amongst front-line office workers. The battle between Microsoft Windows and Google Chrome OS are reaching a feverish pitch. Both companies are looking to grab market share in perfecting a cloud-first operating system. To appeal to the education sector, Microsoft released Windows 10 S. Furthermore, Microsoft has been working closely with Qualcomm to bring ARM-enabled Windows devices. The recently-announced Samsung Notebook S is a perfect example. Powered by the Qualcomm 8cx chipset, the device has LTE capability and is quoted to have a 23-hour battery life. Both products are available for purchase now through the Dell Store and the Google Store. The Latitude 5300 2-in-1 Chromebook Enterprise starts at CAD$1,090. The Latitude 5400 Chromebook Enterprise starts at CAD$930. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Mobility Chromebook, Dell, Google, Laptop, latitude, postmedia Cyber Security Today - How to be safe going back to school Google Hire to retire by September 2020 About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada