https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/personal-health-data-remains-secure-after-ransomware-attack-says-saskatchewans-ehealth-ceo/425790
Ransomware attack hits ehealth Saskatchewan | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by Jaruwan Jaiyangyuen | Getty Images Infrastructure Privacy & Security Personal health data remains secure after ransomware attack, says Saskatchewan’s eHealth CEO Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: January 8th, 2020 The computer system storing confidential health data of the residents of Saskatchewan was attacked over the weekend, disrupting a number of eHealth Saskatchewan’s services, according to eHealth’s website. The attack on eHealth, which leads all IT services for the Saskatchewan Health Authority, began Sunday morning and is now being examined by the employees of eHealth, Cisco Systems and Microsoft. Jim Hornell, chief executive officer of eHealth Saskatchewan, told the CBC that eHealth staff is assessing 110 servers that may have been attacked. eHealth said it’s unaware of the amount of time it will take to fix the issue and resume normal operations. Patient data is secure and no information has been stolen, according to Hornell. The CBC article went on to say that some of the information on the company’s computer system was encrypted and locked by the attackers who demanded a ransom in return for unlocking it. Hornell said he is not aware of specific demands being been made and that eHealth Saskatchewan would not be negotiating with the attackers in any way. The organization has informed the RCMP about the attack. Healthcare institutions are one of the most popular targets for ransomware attacks. Cybersecurity firm iSecurity’s client base includes companies outside of healthcare, but healthcare is by far the most targeted industry, it told IT World Canada recently. In 2019, nearly 50 per cent of breaches detected and responded to by iSecurity were in healthcare. In October, ransomware became a national threat in Canada. The Canadian Centre for Cyber Security issued a country-wide alert about Ryuk ransomware, noting it was “affecting multiple entities, including municipal governments and public health and safety organizations in Canada and abroad.” Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Privacy & Security eHealth, Saskatchewan Cyber Security Today - Facebook improves privacy, bans some altered videos; Google deletes three apps and restores one After seven days Travelex admits ransomware attack About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Canada Health Infoway launches campaign to connect Canadians with digital health records Former Canada Health Infoway CTO joins startup that aims to finally take health records digital OntarioMD connecting family doctors with specialists for an easier healthcare journey Big banks and telcos backing $185 M supercluster bid for national digital identity system Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada