https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-quantum-chips-in-silicon-critique-of-zuckerbergs-privacy-essay-mac-vs-pc-in-2019/415820
Hashtag Trending – Quantum chips in silicon; critique of Zuckerberg's privacy essay;  Mac vs. PC in 2019 | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Quantum chips in silicon; critique of Zuckerberg’s privacy essay; Mac vs. PC in 2019 Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: March 12th, 2019 Why quantum computers just got another research boost. Taking Mark Zuckerberg’s privacy essay to task. And a Youtube host explains why he’s dropping his MacBook for a Windows 10 PC. Trending on Google, a new development in quantum computing. A new paper in the science journal Nature Nanotechnology details a way to build quantum computers with silicon. Until now, the fundamental pieces of a quantum computer – called qubits – have been built on a variety of materials, including semi-conductors. Having qubits built on silicon is important for two reasons. First of all, we make current computer chips out of silicon. So if we can use it to make quantum chips, that means we can produce quantum computers at mass scale. Second of all, researchers also discovered this approach to making qubits removes the need to have readout sensors alongside each qubit. That sounds a bit technical, but the result is that we can make quantum chips that contain more qubits. And the more qubits we get, the closer we are to quantum computers becoming viable for more applications. Zuckerberg’s new privacy essay shows why Facebook needs to be broken up: Mark Zuckerberg doesn’t understand what privacy means—he can’t be trusted to define it for the rest of us. from technology Trending on Reddit, a scathing retort to Mark Zuckerberg’s essay on privacy. Facebook’s CEO posted his 3,200 word essay on March 6th. In that essay, Zuckerberg admits Facebook doesn’t have a good reputation when it comes to privacy. He also suggests the future of the social network could focus more on private communications. But in a rebuke of that essay on MIT’s Technology Review, the author takes issue with Zuckerberg’s discussion of interoperabilty between messaging platforms. Users of different IM platforms should be able to message each other, he suggests, so long as they meet Facebook’s safety and security systems. That sounds a lot like Facebook having a monopoly over all the private messages we send. Author Konstantin Kakaes argues that Facebook should be split up – with WhatsApp and Instagram being spun out as a first step. Trending on Youtube, it’s the latest version of the old Mac vs. PC argument. In this iteration of the saga, the Unbox Therapy host shares why he’s giving up on Apple laptops. Long story short, this guy had a problem with the keyboard on his MacBook. So he started using a Lenovo X1 Carbon. Here’s what he had to say about it: To me, watching this video just feels like an ad for Lenovo. But not labeling a paid video would be illegal in the U.S., so I guess it’s his honest opinion. Right? Careers Facebook, hashtag trending, Lenovo, Mark Zuckerberg, podcasts Pay attention! Ottawa-based SmartCone uses IoT to alert to life-threatening dangers Hashtag Trending - Web turns 30; some scientists worried about wireless devices; Windows 7 soon to die About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada