https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/security-at-the-speed-of-devops-is-possible/418365
Security at the speed of DevOps is possible | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Software Security at the speed of DevOps is possible Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: May 27th, 2019 DevOps brings with it the prospect of a revolution in how businesses satisfy the ever-changing needs of their customers — and without any real hit to overall productivity. Sound too good to be true? It can be, if DevOps and security aren’t working together, running in harmony with one another. Given the speed at which iterations now come out, it can be a tall order to keep security running alongside. But CEOs are expecting just that. In fact, almost seven out of ten CEOs demand development teams do not slow the business down. The result of this pressure is that operations teams will often cut corners to bring things in on time. More than half of organizations cut back on security measures in order to meet an urgent deadline, and 57 per cent of operations teams don’t even follow security best practices. Register for webinar “Security at the Speed of DevOps” At first blush, traditional security and DevOps may seem to run at odds with one another. After all, while security is about ensuring the job is done properly, no matter how long it takes, DevOps is about delivering quality at speed. Disconnect? Possibly. But it doesn’t necessarily have to be so. Security can be part of the DevOps process with no real impact on agility. In fact, the most successful organizations have been building applications with security strategies alongside DevOps — to build secure, ship fast, and run anywhere. What does the security and DevOps picture look like at your organization? Do you have security at the speed of DevOps, or is there a disconnect that needs to be resolved? On Tuesday, June 25th at 1 pm EST, join ITWC CIO Jim Love and Trend Micro cloud security expert Fernando Cardoso for “Security at the Speed of DevOps.” In this interactive session, Love and Cardoso explore how leading enterprises like Amazon enable DevOps to protect their CI/CD pipeline with automated security from build to runtime, and how your security strategy should work for you. Among the topics of discussion in this hour-long session: Addressing the common DevOps security challenges “on the fly” Maintaining a security mindset through the entire DevOps lifecycle Creating a security strategy that fits the DevOps culture Best practices, interactive Q&A, and much more! On Tuesday, June 25th, you may not find the answers to all your problems when it comes to security and DevOps, but you’ll certainly leave the session with your ship’s prow pointed in the right direction. Register now. You’ll be glad you did. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Software agility, DevOps, digital, operations, Trend Micro Cyber Security Today: Beware of email lawsuit scam, an Android missed call con and how's your country doing? Google Pixel 3a XL review: a premium camera for the midrange About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content The aftermath of a data breach and how to secure your business COVID-19 crisis could spur on digital transformation Explore all the changes in Canadian financial services security in a single day From ransomware infections to cryptomining scams, fake factory honeypot provides lessons for CISOs Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada