https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/how-it-managers-can-cultivate-emotional-intelligence-at-work/408538
How IT managers can cultivate emotional intelligence at work | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Photo by Eric Emin Wood Careers Public Sector How IT managers can cultivate emotional intelligence at work Meagan Simpson @megesimpson Published: August 31st, 2018 Building a successful business is about more than reaching deadlines and using hard skills to get things done: emotional intelligence (EI) and social skills are just as essential to productivity, according to City of Toronto client relationship manager Erin Leslie. “Emotional intelligence for me is really the invisible skill set that people need to bring out into their teams and really talk more about,” Leslie told IT World Canada during the Municipal Information Systems Association (MISA) Ontario chapter’s annual conference in Hamilton, Ont. in early June. Leaders who put an emphasis on emotional intelligence in the workplace can cultivate a healthier work environment and even help improve productivity and efficiency, she says. “We used to eat lunch together as kids. We don’t do that anymore as adults,” Leslie notes, adding that grown-up or not it remains as important as ever for leaders to create a healthy workplace where social skills can grow even as adults. Developing emotional intelligence at work Leslie acknowledges that developing the type of environment that allows for the growth of social and emotional intelligence often isn’t as easy as it may seem. Among the ways a leader can compensate, she says, is by creating spaces for collaboration, open discussion, and debate. Creating events that serve as opportunities for employees to interact outside an office setting is important as well, since it allows for networking and bonding that can not only grow social skills, but self awareness. “If we just go home at the end of the day every day, we don’t grow our own abilities and bring those ideas back [into the business],” Leslie argues. Creating an environment with plentiful opportunities for social interaction can help employees feel comfortable reaching out and collaborating in less formal settings, brainstorming at the drop of a hat rather than “reserving a board room.” The key, Leslie says, is creating a natural and open flow of ideas. Introverts vs. Extroverts She also acknowledges that not everyone is the same when it comes to social interaction; that different people learn in different ways, and that it’s especially important to create strategies that work for both introverts and extroverts. Both dispositions, she says, offer their own advantages and disadvantages, and it’s important that leaders offer a level playing field for the variety of abilities that people bring to the table. For example, when seeking input from introverted employees, managers might consider speaking with them in a less-than-formal setting where they feel comfortable expressing or contributing ideas. They should also make sure that extroverts aren’t dominating discussions. A manager’s ultimate goal, she says, should be to organically mix introverts and extroverts together in a task or activity that’s going to benefit both. EI and tech When it comes to tech teams, hard skills can often be the focus, Leslie acknowledges; however, soft skills play an important part in creating and developing processes and new ideas too. Managers should focus on harnessing the unique, individual experiences that each person brings, along with the technical skills that can help grow a business, she says. “In IT teams we tend to silo by skills and by practices,” she tells IT World Canada. “So your architects on one side, your cloud computing on the other, and your applications on yet another side.” She argues that this type of segregation can hinder progress or innovation. Innovating, she says, is all about getting every one of a project’s contributors into the same room. “When you pull them all together in a collaborative place, it’s easier to apply best practices and create a diverse organic group, which means you’re going to get a better output,” she says. How the City of Toronto uses EI Leslie offers the city’s park and recreation program as an example of how developing emotional intelligence programs can have a postive effect on outcomes. ”We went out and used a human design thinking and modernization approach to project management to really map-in that user experience, for example parents registering their children, then built that into the project, making a better project,” she says. The city started incorporating EI programs into its operations in 2015, and Leslie says the city plans to grow these EI programs and is currently working on a new and improved EI program within the coming year. “Like everything in life, practice makes perfect. So no matter what emotional state or personality you are,” she says. “To excel we have to really practice our skills and abilities that we’re less comfortable with and get out there and try to stretch ourselves once in a while.” “That’s how we’re going to grow our brains and our minds and improve EI.” With files from Eric Emin Wood. Careers, Public Sector City of Toronto, emotional intelligence, Erin Leslie, IT leadership, MISA Cyber Security Today: How to keep spam from filling your inbox Preparing for Windows 7 'doomsday' About Meagan Simpson Meagan Simpson is a Jr. staff writer for IT World Canada. A graduate of Carleton University’s journalism program, she loves sports, travelling, reading and photography, and when not covering tech news she can be found cuddled up on the couch with her cat and a good book. Follow Follow @megesimpson on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content AMD CEO Lisa Su joins Cisco’s board of directors City of Toronto updates its open data portal, adds new datasets Ransomware now stealing data, warns Ontario cybercop Allow municipalities to share their IT product security assessments, urges infosec pro Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada