https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/visa-b2b-connect-blockchain-transaction-platform-launches-globally/418930
Visa B2B Connect blockchain transaction platform launches globally | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Software Visa B2B Connect blockchain transaction platform launches globally Tom Li @itworldca Published: June 12th, 2019 Visa’s B2B Connect, a blockchain-based transaction platform for businesses, is now officially online globally. Built in partnership with IBM using the open source Hyperledger Fabric, Visa’s B2B Connect system directly facilitates transactions between banking institutions across borders, removing the intermediary parties in between. Having fewer handoffs between endpoints reduces security risks and speeds up the order. Since fewer parties receive the data, transactions are easily trackable in real-time. Sensitive business information is tokenized to lower chances of fraud. In addition, all participants on the blockchain network are vetted by Visa to prevent malicious actors. “Launching Visa B2B Connect marks an important industry milestone which will accelerate the evolution of how commercial payments move around the world,” said Kevin Phalen, senior vice-president, global head of Visa Business Solutions, in a press release. “By creating a solution that facilitates direct, bank to bank transactions, we are eliminating friction associated with key industry pain points. With Visa B2B Connect, we are making payments quicker and simpler, while enhancing transparency and consistency of data.” Because a blockchain system interconnects all the participating banks, it allows for one-to-many global transactions to be sent directly between them simultaneously. Visa’s B2B Connect platform can also support and work alongside legacy systems, meaning banks don’t have to completely abandon older systems during the transition. The Visa B2B Connect system was first revealed in 2017. Since then, its development was joined by IBM, FIS, Commerce Bank, Shinhan Bank, Union Bank, and the United Overseas Bank. Visa says Bottomline and FIS are currently working with their respective bank clients to integrate Visa B2B Connect. “Enabling modernization for financial institutions across all payments systems is a key tenet of FIS’ global strategy, and we’re glad to be amongst Visa’s first partners to bring Visa B2B Connect platform access to our mutual clients at scale,” said Raja Gopalakrishnan, international head of Banking and Payments for FIS Global Financial Solutions. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Software Blockchain, Hyperledger, IBM, visa Canada should think again about having the ability to use offensive cyber weapons: Expert Lenovo releases ThinkSmart Hub 500 for better conferencing About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Configuration mistakes blamed for bulk of stolen records last year: IBM Ginni Rometty out as IBM CEO, Arvind Krishna steps in IBM Food Trust ensures savory olive oil and better coffee Bleeding edge information technology developments Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada