https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/intel-announces-new-8th-gen-core-processors-at-ifa/408512
Intel announces new 8th-Gen Core processors at IFA | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Mobility Wireless & IoT Intel announces new 8th-Gen Core processors at IFA Meagan Simpson @megesimpson Published: August 30th, 2018 Intel Corp. has announced its newest generation of processors that are set to provide improved performance for PCs, specifically tablets and 2-in-1s, and boasts Intel’s longest lasting battery yet. The new additions will be part of the 8th Gen Intel Core processor family. The new U series (nicknamed Whiskey Lake) and the new Y-series (nicknamed Amber Lake) will be available in devices as early as September. Intel’s newest 8th generation core processors. Source Intel. The tech giant said in a briefing that the CPUs are made to provide better connectivity, mobile performance, longer battery life and improved voice services on PCs. These processors build on the success of the previous 8th generation Core processors but with “double-digit gains in performance,” Intel says. When developing processors Intel has identified three major trends for how people use PCs, said Karen Regis, Intel’s director of mobile platform marketing in the briefing. They include a changing work environment where people strive for more independence and creativity, how people use social media and lastly, and the changing way people connect, collaborate and share. Regis said this generation of processors attempts to meet those changing needs of users. PC battery life with these processors can last up to 16 hours on average and in some “power optimized” devices could last up to 19 hours, stated Intel. They also offer 1.8 times better web performance, two times better when compared to a five-year-old PC, and 6.5 times faster download and upload speeds to help improve video and content sharing as well as improved streaming and gaming capabilities. Intel’s newest 8th generation core processors specs. Source Intel The U-series brings integrated Gigabit Wi-Fi to thin and light laptops for the first time, delivering up to 12 times faster connectivity speeds. Intel says it also offers more intelligent interactions with PCs by improving voice services such as Microsoft’s Cortana and Amazon’s Alexa. The Y-series is said to improve touch and stylus options, offering more natural and refined capabilities. In terms of security, the U and Y processors will come with all the security, hardware design changes and software updates that have been made since Spectre and Meltdown said Regis in the briefing. PCs with the new processors will be available as soon as September, and according to Regis, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) will be making their own statements regarding the processors and their availability within the coming week. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Mobility, Wireless & IoT Intel, Processors Go on an information management world tour Hashtag Trending - Nude photo hacker sentenced; Apple buys AR startup; Google calls BS on Trump’s conspiracy theory About Meagan Simpson Meagan Simpson is a Jr. staff writer for IT World Canada. A graduate of Carleton University’s journalism program, she loves sports, travelling, reading and photography, and when not covering tech news she can be found cuddled up on the couch with her cat and a good book. Follow Follow @megesimpson on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Vulnerability in Intel chipsets could lead to ‘chaos’, predicts report Intel processor constraint to continue in 2020, says HPE CES 2020: Intel shows off Tiger Lake processors with ‘double-digit performance gains’ and new graphics CES 2020: AMD’s new 64-core Threadripper processor, new graphics card, and Ryzen 4000 processor Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada