https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-mexican-company-hit-by-ransomware-israeli-cyber-security-companys-forum-hacked-and-update-mcafee-software/423905
Cyber Security Today – Mexican company hit by ransomware, Israeli cyber security company's forum hacked, and update McAfee software | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – Mexican company hit by ransomware, Israeli cyber security company’s forum hacked, and update McAfee software Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: November 13th, 2019 Mexican company hit by ransomware, Israeli cyber security company’s forum hacked, and update McAfee software Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Wednesday November 13th. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanada.com. To hear the podcast click on the arrow below: Pemex, Mexico’s government-owned petroleum company, is the latest big firm to be victimized by ransomware. According to news reports, the hacker is demanding the equivalent of $5 million. Unfortunately a lot of companies around the world are still not ready to stop being infected by this stuff. One of the best ways is free: Educate staff to be suspicious of all emails. The second is make sure all staff use two-factor authentication to log into computers and applications. A while back I mentioned that the vBulletin application used by many organizations for their customer and support discussion forums had buts that could only be fixed with the latest patches. Well, the news site The Hacker News has learned one of the support forums of Israel-based cybersecurity company Zone Alarm has been breached. The incident only affects those registered on “forums.zonealarm.com.” The Hacker News has been told by the company the attackers exploited a bug in vBulletin. Apparently Zone Alarm was running a version for which a patch had been issued. However, it isn’t clear when the forum was hacked. Forum members have been asked to change their passwords. If you have been notified by Zone Alarm about this and you use the same password on other sites, make sure to change the passwords on those sites as well. Attention Firefox browser users: If you somehow end up on a web page asking you to call Windows support, close the browser immediately. This is a scam to get your password, and it works by seemingly freezing the browser with the message so you can’t do anything. Yes you can. As SecurityWeek notes, Windows users can force Firefox to close from the Task Manager by pressing Control-Alt-Delete buttons, or just right-click on the taskbar at the bottom of the screen. Either way, a menu will appear with Task Manager as one of the options. Click it and there’s another menu that lets you selectively close a running application. On a Mac, use the Force Quit option. Attention users of McAfee anti-virus products including Total Protection and Internet Security: There’s an update that needs to be installed fast. A security company called SafeBreach discovered a vulnerability. Yesterday McAfee issued a fix. Finally, yesterday was the monthly Microsoft Patch Tuesday, and with it came an important update to Windows 10. It includes bug fixes and some new but small features. Look for it coming to your computer in the next few days if you allow automatic updates, or do it yourself manually by going to the Settings menu and then to Update. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Hashtag Trending - Disney server overload; Facebook secretly turning on cameras; best companies ranked Dell debuts Dell EMC PowerOne, CTO says competition incapable of ‘doing what we’re doing’ in automation space About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada