https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/database-with-phone-numbers-of-millions-of-facebook-users-found-on-internet/421519
Database with phone numbers of millions of Facebook users found on Internet | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Database with phone numbers of millions of Facebook users found on Internet Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: September 5th, 2019 A server with databases holding the phone numbers and identity numbers of perhaps as many as 200 million Facebook users in the U.S., the U.K. and other countries has been found open on the Internet by a security researcher. No one knows who the database belongs to, how or when it was copied from Facebook, according to TechCrunch, which first reported the discovery Wednesday. A total of 413 million records are in the databases, but according to news reports, roughly half of them are duplicates. TechCrunch quoted Facebook spokesperson Jay Nancarrow as saying the data had been scraped before Facebook cut off public access to user phone numbers over a year ago. Until then users could search the social media site for phone numbers. “This data set is old and appears to have information obtained before we made changes last year to remove people’s ability to find others using their phone numbers,” Nancarrow said. “The data set has been taken down and we have seen no evidence that Facebook accounts were compromised.” However, TechCrunch noted that in the hands of a threat actors a phone number could be used at least for spam calls, and at worst for SIM-swapping attacks, where a cell carrier is tricked switching the phone number of a user to another device. Each record in the databases contained a user’s unique Facebook ID and the phone number listed on the account. A user’s Facebook ID is typically a long, unique and public number associated with their account. TechCrunch said it can easily be used to discern an account’s username. Some of the records also had the user’s name, gender and location by country. TechCruch said this is a typical page found in the database: Sanyam Jain, a security researcher and member of the GDI Foundation, found the database and contacted TechCrunch after he was unable to find the owner. The news site also couldn’t find the owner but was able to identify the web host, who pulled the server offline. Ashlee Benge, a threat researcher at security vendor ZeroFox, noted that when phone numbers associated with identities are leaked, like in this case where they are associated with specific Facebook profiles, it poses a high risk for SIM swapping attacks. These kinds of attacks occur when either a phone number or associated account is hijacked. This information is especially valuable to account takeover forums that specialize in these attacks. Whether these attacks are conducted to take over an account and drain associated bank accounts or bitcoin wallets, or as a publicity stunt, it’s important to protect yourself against these types of cybercriminals. To better secure accounts and prevent these kinds of attacks, she recommends enabling the option to be notified when a login occurs from a new device. Additionally, although it will not prevent account hijacking if a phone number has been taken over, we also recommend that two-factor authentication be enabled whenever possible. This is best done with an app like Google Authenticator or Duo. If SMS-based two-factor authentication is required, we recommend using Google Voice. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Facebook, postmedia, security strategies Hashtag Trending - Canada’s top startups, messaging app usage explodes, Amazon hotline Five steps to a better ransomware response plan About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada