https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-huawei-cfo-hearing-apple-bends-to-fbi-north-shotgunning-patents/426337
Hashtag Trending – Huawei CFO hearing; Apple bends to FBI; North shotgunning patents | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Huawei CFO hearing; Apple bends to FBI; North shotgunning patents Tom Li @itworldca Published: January 22nd, 2020 Today’s top news is that Huawei’s CFO hearing is now officially underway. In other news, North’s new smart-glasses to include some cool new bleeding-edge features, and Apple supposedly abandoned encrypting iCloud backups after FBI intervention. Thank you for tuning in to Hashtag Trending, it’s Wednesday, January 22nd, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending everywhere, the first phase of hearing for Huawei CFO Meng Wan Zhou is now underway. Meng was arrested at the Vancouver airport in 2018 and has been under house arrest after paying a $10 million bail. The hearing will determine if there will be a trial, in which Meng was accused of violating a US trade sanction against Iran. Now, the Canadian court must decide whether Meng has committed a crime against Canada and ultimately whether she should be extradited to the U.S. As expected, China has once again called for Meng’s release. And Huawei has said that it can’t give out comments on legal proceedings, but trusts in Canada’s judicial system. Trending on Reddit, more info of North’s second-generation Focals smartglasses has surfaced. While North didn’t say what will be included in its upcoming smart glasses, The Logic reported that the company filed over 100 patents in 2019 on everything between encrypted eye communications to new biometric authentication methods. North recently showcased its new Focals at CES 2020, which featured a much sleeker collapsible frame and improved ergonomics. Trending on Reddit, it seems like Apple caved into FBI’s demands after famously rebuffing its request to decrypt the phone belonging to the San Bernardino gunman in 2016. Shortly after the 2016 fiasco, Apple scrapped the idea to implement end-to-end encryption for iCloud backups. This gave the police and FBI a way to search through a target’s iCloud data without informing the target. Reuters reported that six sources from the FBI and Apple agreed that Apple applied the change under the FBI’s complaints. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Cyber Security Today - Kids clothes site hacked, a new phony email extortion scam and be careful with Internet Explorer Researchers find open Microsoft database with 250 million support records About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada