https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/new-attack-on-elasticsearch-instances-detected/420191
New attack on Elasticsearch instances detected | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Shutterstock.com Privacy & Security New attack on Elasticsearch instances detected Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: July 23rd, 2019 IT administrators at companies whose staff use Elasticsearch for data searching and analytics are being warned to update to the latest version of the tool after the discovery of a backdoor attack that can steal data and turn an infected machine into botnets for distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks. An open-source tool, Elasticsearch can be vulnerable when employees use older versions or leave search/analytic results unprotected. Attackers often look for these vulnerable servers as an entry point into enterprises, usually to deposit cryptomining malware or ransomware. However, in a blog today, Trend Micro said it has seen a new attack that downloads a different payload through a sophisticated system of expendable domains to help evade detection. Once the attacker finds an exposed database or server and installs backdoor malware, a shell on the infected device downloads the first malicious script from an expendable or easy-to-replace domain. That script will attempt to shut down the firewall as well as any already-running cryptocurrency mining activities and other processes. A second-stage script is then retrieved, likely from a compromised website. Related Articles Open Elasticsearch instance had data on Canadian immigrant applicants: Researcher Finding exposed Elasticsearch servers has become great sport among some security pros. Canadian researcher and consultant Darryl Burke recently came... June 13th, 2019 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Elasticsearch users increasingly targets of ransomware IT departments using the open source Elasticsearch search engine for in-house combing of log and other data are being warned... January 16th, 2017 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC The use of expendable domains, for instance, allows the attackers to swap URLs as soon as they are detected, says Trend Micro. Abusing compromised websites can also let them evade detection of websites specially developed by the attackers. The malware samples seen by Trend Micro look similar to what has been called the BillGates malware, first seem in 2014 and known for being used to hijack systems and initiate DDoS attacks or be involved in botnets. The inclusion of detection evasion and multi-stage execution techniques “is a red flag,” says Trend Micro. It could mean attackers are testing their hacking tools or readying their infrastructure before mounting actual attacks. “This attack highlights the importance of properly securing digital assets, as the impact of an unsecure Elasticsearch server can have real-life repercussions,” the blog authors say. Elastic has already released a patch for the vulnerability this attack exploits, as well as guidelines on how to secure, properly configure, and enable its security features. Additional security mechanisms like data categorization, network segmentation, and intrusion prevention systems will help reduce further exposure to malware and breaches. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security security strategies AI adoption in Canada could benefit from a greater focus on STEM education, experts say Average cost of a data breach is nearly $4 million, says study About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada