https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-netflix-commits-to-toronto-google-snafu-with-nest-apple-announces-overhaul/415162
Hashtag Trending – Netflix commits to Toronto; Google snafu with Nest; Apple announces overhaul | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Privacy & Security Hashtag Trending – Netflix commits to Toronto; Google snafu with Nest; Apple announces overhaul Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: February 21st, 2019 “This podcast is brought to you by Amazon Web Services. Companies build more of their IT infrastructure on AWS than the next four cloud providers combined. Visit aws.amazon.com to learn how AWS can help you modernize your IT.” Netflix invests in Toronto, Google forgets one of its security devices has a microphone, and Apple plans to make app development easier. There’s a lot of chatter around Netflix’s latest decision to establish a production hub in Toronto, which many are hoping will lead to new opportunities for local talent. The streaming giant announced its expansion in Canada Tuesday, noting it’s leasing two studio spaces in the city’s downtown waterfront area. Netflix says their latest commitment will provide jobs for up to 1,850 Canadians per year, and the combined total of eight new sound stages its leasing are multi-year deals. It also leases a film studio in B.C. and other production sites across Canada on a case-by-case basis. As of this recording, Netflix has not specified how long those leases are for. Google says the built-in microphone it never told Nest users about was ‘never supposed to be a secret’ from r/technology Reddit is buzzing about Google’s latest controversy surrounding its home security and alarm system Nest Secure. Google’s early February announcement about an update for the Nest drew a lot of criticism when it was revealed the update would allow its virtual assistant Google Assistant to work with the device. Why you might ask? Well, Google never revealed the fact that the Nest has a microphone, and it wasn’t even listed in the spec sheet. Google has addressed the secret microphone in reporting from Business Insider, suggesting that the company had made a “error” and that the microphone was never meant to be a secret. Nest, acquired by Google in 2014 for $3.2 billion, offers a variety of IoT devices such as video doorbells, smoke detectors and security cameras. And lastly, Apple wants to make it easier for software developers to create applications for its main devices. According to reporting from Bloomberg, Apple has a project code-named “Marzipan” which aims to allow developers to build an app once and have it run on the iPhone, iPad and Mac computers by 2021. In addition to making developers’ lives easier, Apple’s Marzipan project is meant to spur rapid software development. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Please also subscribe to us on Apple Podcasts and Google Podcasts. I’m your host Alex Coop. Thanks for listening! Careers, Privacy & Security hashtag trending, LinkedIn, podcasts, Reddit, twitter Canada's tech lobby groups OK with Google creating another one Samsung Galaxy S10 5G won't be coming to Canada About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada