https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-be-careful-buying-child-gps-trackers-company-exposes-customer-email-and-a-report-on-crimeware/421533
Cyber Security Today – Be careful buying child GPS trackers, company exposes customer email and a report on crimeware | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – Be careful buying child GPS trackers, company exposes customer email and a report on crimeware Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: September 6th, 2019 Be careful buying GPS trackers for keeping an eye on kids, a global company exposes customer email and a report on the extent of crimeware. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Friday September 6th. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanada.com. To hear the podcast click on the arrow below: It’s a terrible thing to always have to worry where your children are and if they’re safe. But to meet this demand some electronics companies are selling GPS trackers kids carry — like a watch or a keychain fob — so you can keep an eye on them. Most send off a signal mom and dad can read off their cellphone or tablet through a mobile app. But these supposed helpers may come with security problems, says security vendor Avast. It studied 29 models made by a Chinese company and sold under different names and found problems. First, the mobile app has to be downloaded from an unsecured website, exposing the users’ information. Second, design flaws in the trackers can also enable someone to fake the user’s location, or access the microphone for eavesdropping. Third, the default password is 123456, which can be hacked. As you all know, default passwords have to be changed. But Avast says as many as 600,000 buyers of these devices still use the default password. The takeaway: Don’t buy cheap or knock-off Internet-connected devices. And make sure if you have to download an app it comes from a reputable company whose website and online service are secure. This week’s Ooopsy Award goes to DK-Lok, a South Korean manufacturer of industrial pipes, valves and fittings which sells products around the world. Why? Because security researchers at vpnMentor discovered an email database at the company hadn’t been properly protected from unauthorized Internet access. As a result researchers could read messages marked private and confidential between DK-Lok staff and customers in Canada, the U.S., Germany, France, Russia, Brazil and other countries. These messages included names, email addresses, product prices and quotes, project bids, travel arrangements and more. As the researchers note in a blog, this is bad for the company’s reputation. More so because the researchers’ warning emails to DK-Lok about the data breach seemed to be ignored. Finally, with the regular reports of data breaches you may think police aren’t getting anywhere shutting down cybercrime. Well, now there’s some scientific evidence to back that up. A report this week from Chronicle, the cybersecurity unit of Google’s parent company, Alphabet, found that usually within six months of law enforcement action against crimeware gangs and their distribution infrastructure the amount of malware floating around the Internet goes back up. Despite the increasing number of arrests law enforcement operations are frequently hobbled by outdated laws and complex barriers to co-operation with the private sector, says the report. The report adds that it’s likely recent arrests are merely “culling the herd” of criminals that than impacting organized operations. The fact is crimeware — including stealing of data for resale and ransomware — is big business. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcast Hashtag Trending - Yahoo goes down, an Android update, Canadian cybersecurity talent shortage Commvault acquires SDS startup for $225 million About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Cyber Security Today – The latest news on COVID-19 scams, and how GE was victimized when a supplier was hacked Cyber Security Today – Database with 5 billion records left open, Rogers warns Canadians of data exposure and FBI warns of financial help scam Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada