https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/boeing-a-victim-of-wannacry-cryptoworm-ransomware-a-year-after-outbreak/403333
Boeing a victim of WannaCry cryptoworm ransomware a year after outbreak | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Boeing a victim of WannaCry cryptoworm ransomware a year after outbreak Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: March 29th, 2018 The first rule of cyber security is create a complete inventory of the organization’s hardware and software, because you can’t defend what you don’t know is there. Arguably the second rule is have a rigorous patch management system to update everything in the inventory. Boeing seems to have violated both after being victimized Wednesday by the WannaCry ransomware cryptoworm. The Seattle Times reported that initially an executive flashed a memo saying the malware was “metastasizing rapidly” in a South Carolina plant. However, later Linda Mills, the head of communications for Boeing Commercial Airplanes, said in a statement that “the vulnerability was limited to a few machines. We deployed software patches. There was no interruption to the 777 jet program or any of our programs.” Related Articles WannaCry alert a ‘blessing in disguise’ for Ontario city There aren’t many infosec pros who would call last spring’s frantic alerts about the global spread of WannaCry ransomware a... October 25th, 2017 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Exploding three myths about WannaCry ransomware As infosec pros catch their breath recovering from the WannaCry ransomware attack that crippled some 300,000 Windows machines around the... June 15th, 2017 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC It is surprising that a company as big as Boeing was caught out by this malware, which began spreading in May 2017 . It could have been stopped by installing a Windows patch from Microsoft released in April. Believed to have been sprung by the Shadow Brokers, Wannacry includes what has been called the EternalBlue exploit apparently found and stolen from the U.S. National Security Agency which leverages a bug in Windows Server Message Block (SMB) protocol. Microsoft released information on the problem on March 14, 2017 along with security bulletin MS17-010, then put out patches in April. The malware spread like a worm by scanning systems linked by a network to any machine it infected. There was no shortage of publicity when Wannacry began in rapidly replicating itself in May. An estimated 200,000 computers were infected in 150 countries, including the U.K.’s health care system, a Nissan car manufacturing plant in Britain and FedEx. In December the U.S. declared that North Korea was behind the release of the ransomware. Apparently Boeing had at least a few computers that hadn’t been patched with the Microsoft fix, released almost a year ago. While there are automated discovery and patching solutions, they aren’t always perfect. Equifax found that out the hard way after it was stung by an attack that leveraged a known vulnerability in the Apache Struts framework. According to testimony before Congress by the company’s former CEO, Equifax’s security team knew about a warning issued by the US-CERT. Company policy is that patches have to be installed within 48 hours. But, due to “human error” by an unnamed person, the patch wasn’t applied. On top of that a software scan of its systems which should have discovered the patch hadn’t been applied missed it. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security security strategies, WannaCry Cyber Security Today: Cities told to get smart, tracing stolen Bitcoin and Apple flaw in processing QR codes Tech highlights of Liberals' pre-election Ontario budget About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada