https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/rbc-becomes-first-canadian-bank-to-open-an-api-developer-portal/403007
RBC first Canadian bank to open an API developer portal | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Software RBC becomes first Canadian bank to open an API developer portal Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Published: March 20th, 2018 RBC wants to increase its collaboration with external developers and accelerate the speed of innovation if its latest announcement is any indication. The financial institution has launched an Application Programming Interface (API) developer portal called RBC Developers portal, becoming the first Canadian bank to do so. APIs are a communication layer that allows applications to talk to other applications. Within the context of RBC, APIs enable third-party applications to gain secure access to specific data and capabilities from the company. Related Stories AI will infiltrate every industry and businesses need to be prepared, experts say CIBC leads Canadian banks in online functionality Once registered and approved to use the portal, it will allow “eligible external software developers, industry innovators, and clients” to access select RBC APIs so they can browse and learn, and then build, test, and deploy new applications on them. “Across other industries we’ve seen the transformational effect of APIs,” Sumit Oberai, senior vice-president of digital technology at RBC, says in a Mar. 20 press release. “By providing external developers, industry innovators and clients with access to select RBC APIs, we have the opportunity to increase connectivity, create new tools and experiences for clients, and enable open and innovative collaboration to improve the future of banking.” RBC is initially offering five API packages in the portal for developers to browse. Each package delivers all “the data elements, orchestration and business logic required to deliver the end to end business process.” More API packages will be added in the future. Credit card catalog API – Provides access to credit card rates and fees through a business oriented interface. These values are organized in terms of line of business, product family, and individual products Minimum down payment API – Calculates the minimum down payment required for a given purchase price of a home Branch locator API – Accepts postal code or keyword search term and returns the address and hours of operation of the closest branch, or a list of the closest branches Amortization schedule API – Calculates the number of payments associated with a mortgage amount, amortization period, interest details and payment details Safety deposit box inventory API – Provides safety deposit box information at a specified branch Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Software APIs, developers, Finance, RBC Canadian CIO: An editors' history of 25 years covering IT's most important role Hashtag Trending - Mark Zuckerberg summoned by UK lawmakers, Google invests in news subscriptions, Canadian town replaced public transit with Uber About Mandy Kovacs Mandy is a lineup editor at CTV News. A former staffer at IT World Canada, she's now contributing as a part-time podcast host on Hashtag Trending. She is a Carleton University journalism graduate with extensive experience in the B2B market. When not writing about tech, you can find her active on Twitter following political news and sports, and preparing for her future as a cat lady. Follow Follow @MandyVKovacs on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Explore all the changes in Canadian financial services security in a single day CES 2020: Dell introduces the XPS 13 Developer Edition laptop U.S. trade war hits consumers with higher electronics pricing Technology is the tool of digital transformation, not the outcome: OnX event Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada