https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/massive-telecommunication-data-breach-linked-to-chinese-hackers-says-israeli-security-firm/419504
Massive telecommunication data breach linked to Chinese hackers, says Israeli security firm | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by Kagenmi from Thinkstock.com Infrastructure Privacy & Security Massive telecommunication data breach linked to Chinese hackers, says Israeli security firm Tom Li @itworldca Published: June 26th, 2019 Attackers breached a telecommunication company in a massive data espionage campaign, said U.S.-Isreali cyber firm Cybereason, naming the breach Operation Soft Cell. In one scenario, the attack was carried out in four waves in a period of six months, each using different tools and malicious payloads. It grew increasingly sophisticated with every subsequent wave, using custom tools previously unknown to researchers. In a blog post, Cybereason said that there’s a “very high probability that the threat actor behind these malicious operations is backed by a nation state, and is affiliated with China.” Furthermore, Cyberreason noted that the attacker’s motive, tactics, and indicators of compromise, closely resemble ATP10, a known Chinese hacker group. Lior Div, the chief executive officer of Cybereason, corroborated the report’s results. “For this level of sophistication, it’s not a criminal group. It is a government that has the capabilities that can do this kind of attack,” he said to Reuters. Aside from detecting tools that were based on existing tools commonly associated with Chinese actors, the blog post says another factor in determining the attacker’s identity is intent. Whereas rogue organizations typically target financial data, nation-state threat actors tend to pursue intellectual properties or personal information. The targets of Operation Soft Cell are telecommunication providers’ CDR records, which contain call routing information, device details, physical location, and device vendor and version. This information can reveal personal details including call contacts and the user’s travel behavior. The information could then be used to target foreign intelligence agents, politicians, and law enforcement. The blog post also stresses the potential for a network meltdown if the attacker chooses to sabotage the infrastructure operation, given that they have total control over the network. The attack had been active since at least 2012 and had infiltrated the deepest segments of the target’s network, stealing critical assets, said the report. Breached sectors include production servers, database servers, and unrestricted access to the domain controller. Cybereason has yet to disclose the extent of the breach and the number of affected records, nor has it released information about which companies were breached and their location. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Privacy & Security Cyber Security, data breach, hackers, telecommunication Blackberry expanding autonomous vehicle partnership with LG Hashtag Trending - Bitcoin price jump; telecoms get hacked; Bell increases fees About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Koodo admits February data breach, data already being sold on dark web Canada has highest wireless value among G7 nations: U.S. study Why pizza party security training doesn’t cut it anymore Movement starts to have Canada declare Sept. 1 as International Women in Cyber Day Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada