https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-ibm-funding-new-ai-lab-toronto-wants-amazons-second-headquarters/396364
Hashtag Trending – IBM funding new AI lab, Toronto wants Amazon's second headquarters | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Leadership Public Sector Hashtag Trending – IBM funding new AI lab, Toronto wants Amazon’s second headquarters Eric Emin Wood @ericewood Published: September 8th, 2017 IBM is committing hundreds of millions to a new AI lab. Jaguar has become the latest car company to abandon the internal combustion engine. And Toronto wants Amazon to build its next headquarters within sight of the CN Tower. On Reddit today, readers are buzzing over IBM’s $240 million U.S. investment into an artificial intelligence research lab that it will operate in tandem with MIT – the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. According to IBM the money, which will be invested over the course of a decade, will be used to fund research into algorithms, hardware optimization, and health care applications that can be powered by Watson, the company’s signature AI platform. MIT is no stranger to AI: it’s home to one of the U.S.’s first AI labs, and IBM has collaborated with them before, on air defense research and superconductors. Also on Reddit, U.K.-based Jaguar Land Rover is making waves after committing to build only hybrid or electric vehicles from 2020 onward. The news is notable for two reasons, one of them being that Jaguar doesn’t actually build any electric vehicles yet itself. The company unveiled a single electronic concept car back in November, and while CEO Ralf Speth said that Jaguar sees battery-powered cars as a way to grow its global workforce of 40,000, no other details have been revealed. However, the announcement makes Jaguar the second major car company to commit to electric vehicles, with two months after Volvo promised that all of its cars from 2019 onward will be hybrid or electric. Finally, Toronto mayor John Tory has used Twitter to announce that Canada’s largest city will be competing for Amazon’s new second headquarters. The Seattle-based tech giant announced Thursday that it was looking for another city in North America for a second head office that will cost at least $5 billion – with a B – U.S. dollars to build and employ at least 50,000 people. So far, most writeups on American websites have interpreted “North America” to mean U.S., but Tory’s reminder that Toronto meets all of the requirements Amazon is looking for, including a metropolitan area of more than 1 million people, an international airport, transit access, and a pool of high-quality tech talent, has been retweeted more than 500 times. Artificial Intelligence, Leadership, Public Sector artificial intelligence, City of Toronto, electric vehicles, hashtag trending, IBM, Mayor John Tory, MIT, twitter Familiar face takes over Microsoft Canada CIBC leads Canadian banks in online functionality About Eric Emin Wood Former IT World Canada associate editor turned consultant with public relations firm Porter Novelli. When not writing for the tech industry enjoys photography, movies, travelling, the Oxford comma, and will talk your ear off about animation if you give him an opening. Follow Follow @ericewood on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Hashtag Trending – Gates says US botched COVID-19 response; Snopes overwhelmed; Plague Inc. flips the script Hashtag Trending – 3D-printed ventilators; Drones yell at people to stay indoors; Banning targeted ads Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada