https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/average-cost-of-a-data-breach-is-us3-9-million-says-study/420197
Average cost of a data breach is nearly $4 million, says study | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Average cost of a data breach is nearly $4 million, says study Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: July 23rd, 2019 The cost of a data breach has risen 12 per cent over the past five years and could cost an average of $3.92 million if a new study of victimized firms is representative of the true costs. The numbers are in the latest annual Cost of a Data Breach report by the Ponemon Institute and funded by IBM Corp. All figures are in U.S. After a plunge in 2017, the average cost of a breach among studied organizations has been rising. The latest annual Cost of a Data Breach report by the Ponemon Institute and funded by IBM. Source: IBM The most recent data was pulled from interviewing officials at 507 organizations in 16 countries and regions and across 17 industry sectors that suffered breaches between July 2018 and April 2019. For the first time this year, the report also examined the longtail financial impact of a data breach, finding that the effects of a data breach are felt for years. While an average of 67 per cent of data breach costs were seen in the first year after a breach, 22 per cent accrued in the second year, and another 11 per cent accumulated more than two years after a breach. The analysis takes into account hundreds of cost factors including legal, regulatory, and technical activities to loss of brand equity, customers, and employee productivity. Among other highlights: Over 50 per cent of data breaches in the study resulted from malicious cyberattacks and cost companies $1 million more on average than those originating from accidental causes. While less common, breaches of more than 1 million records cost companies a projected $42 million in losses and those of 50 million records are projected to cost companies $388 million. Companies with an incident response team that also extensively tested their incident response plan experienced $1.23 million less in data breach costs on average than those that had neither measure in place. The average time it took organizations to detect and identify a breach was 279 days. That’s 4.9 per cent longer than the average of 266 days in 2018. In addition, it was found that the longer a breach’s life cycle is, the greater the total cost. This is especially true in the case of malicious and criminal attacks, which take an average of 314 days to identify and contain. Related Articles Errors blamed for 21 per cent of data breaches: Verizon report Clumsy hands of employees continue to be the bane of CISOs according to the latest figures from the annual Verizon... May 8th, 2019 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Cost of Canadian data breaches continues to rise, says study The average cost of data breaches at Canadian companies is going up, it’s taking them longer to detect breaches and... July 11th, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC While among the organizations studied, malicious data breaches are growing (up from 42 per cent to 51 per cent over the past six years –a 21 per cent increase), the combined number of inadvertent breaches from human error and from system glitches were still the cause for nearly half (49 per cent) of the data breaches in the report. “These breaches from human and machine error represent an opportunity for improvement, which can be addressed through security awareness training for staff, technology investments, and testing services to identify accidental breaches early on,” says IBM in a news release accompanying the report. “One particular area of concern is the misconfiguration of cloud servers, which contributed to the exposure of 990 million records in 2018, representing 43 per cent of all lost records for the year, according to the IBM X-Force Threat Intelligence Index.” Additional factors impacting the cost of a breach for companies in the study included: Number of compromised records. Data breaches cost companies around $150 per record that was lost or stolen. Companies that fully deployed security automation technologies experienced around half the cost of a breach ($2.65 million average) compared to those that did not have these technologies deployed ($5.16 million average). Extensive use of encryption was also a top cost saving factor, reducing the total cost of a breach by $360,000. Breaches originating from a third party – such as a partner or supplier – cost companies $370,000 more than average, emphasizing the need for companies to closely vet the security of the companies they do business with, align security standards, and actively monitor third-party access. In a blog for IBM, report author Larry Ponemon also noted that this year’s edition examined the value to organizations of testing an incident response plan. It estimates this reduced the average total cost of a breach by $320,000 compared to the mean total cost of a data breach ($3.92 million). The top cost-mitigating factor out of the 26 cost factors looked at is the formation of an incident response team, which reduced the average total cost of a data breach by $360,000. Several other cost-mitigating factors are business continuity management, a DevSecOps approach, artificial intelligence (AI) platforms “and good, old-fashioned employee education.” Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security data breach, IBM, research reports, security strategies New attack on Elasticsearch instances detected Huawei Canada announces plans to bring broadband to more than 70 remote communities About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada