https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-52000-mac-pro-self-driving-commercial-truck-beijing-replaces-foreign-tech/425027
Hashtag Trending - $52,000 Mac Pro, self-driving commercial truck, Beijing replaces foreign tech | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – $52,000 Mac Pro, self-driving commercial truck, Beijing replaces foreign tech Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: December 11th, 2019 Twitter goes nuts over the new Mac Pro’s price tag, A self-driving truck delivered butter from California to Pennsylvania in three days, and the Chinese government wants to get rid of all of its foreign computers and software. The cheese grater is back in the news this week. Apple’s most expensive Mac Pro costs about the same as a new Corvette. The workstation is available starting at nearly CA$8,000, but what’s got Twitter up in arms is the cost of upgrades: It costs an additional $9,200 to get the vaunted 28-core 2.5GHz Xeon, and a whopping $33,000 to equip the machine with 1.5TB of RAM. Throw in some additional processing power and accelerator cards, and you’re looking at a price tag of roughly $70,000. The screen costs extra – $7,000 extra. Naturally people took to Twitter to complain, but some users pointed out how this machine is for heavy-duty developers and people rendering hours worth of video on a near-daily basis. While this may be true, the infamous $1,000 stand is pretty outrageous. A Reddit post about a self-driving truck delivering butter from California to Pennsylvania in three days – without any issues – is getting a lot of attention. The story linked to the post says the trip is the first commercial freight cross-country trip by an autonomous truck. The autonomous capabilities were supplied by a Silicon Valley startup. There was a single safety driver and engineer on board to make sure nothing went horribly wrong. And luckily, nothing did during the 2,800-mile long trip. And lastly, the Chinese government has given government offices three years to remove all foreign computers and software as part of a larger effort to increase the country’s reliance on home-made technology. Fortune says more than 20 million computers, including hardware from HP, Dell, and Microsoft. The story points out how American tech companies make an estimated $150 billion in annual revenues from China. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Breaking down cybersecurity best practices one castle wall at a time Cyber Security Today - Three email password scams to watch out for About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada