https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-collision-in-toronto-digital-charter-u-s-delays-huawei-blacklisting/418245
Hashtag Trending – Collision in Toronto; Digital Charter; U.S. delays Huawei blacklisting | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Wireless & IoT Hashtag Trending – Collision in Toronto; Digital Charter; U.S. delays Huawei blacklisting Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: May 22nd, 2019 Thousands descend upon Toronto’s Collision technology conference, Canada announces its new Digital Charter to bolster privacy and security, and the U.S. says it will delay adding Huawei to a trade blacklist for 90 days. The fastest growing tech conference in North America kicked off in Toronto this week, and it’s trending all over Twitter. More than 25,000 are expected to attend Collision at the city’s Enercare Centre, where hundreds of booths, workshops and keynotes focused on AI, automated and connected vehicles, data, security, and so much more, are occupying more than 1 million square feet of exhibit space. Toronto Mayor John Tory took to the stage to introduce attendees to the fourth annual event and tout recent investments in Toronto. The federal government unveiled a 10-principle Digital Charter that aims to modernize the rules governing the digital sphere in Canada and address issues like universal access and hate online. The Charter also aims to align Canada’s federal privacy with the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulations. A lot of Twitter users seem to be happy with increased privacy protections, but are wary of the potential for censorship of unpopular ideas. And lastly, as of this recording, the U.S. has decided to backtrack ever-so-slightly on its recent decision to add Huawei to a trade blacklist. This comes a day after Google announced the suspension of its business with Huawei, striking a significant blow to Huawei’s smartphone business outside of China, although it’s not clear at this point how exactly its global supply chain will be impacted. Reuters reports that holders of current Huawei smartphones with Google apps can still download app updates. That’s all the tech news that’s popular right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Remember to add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Alex Coop. Thanks for listening. Careers, Wireless & IoT City of Toronto, collision, hashtag trending, Huawei, Mayor John Tory, podcasts Canada announces Digital Charter, promises serious fines to business for not protecting privacy Manufacturing spending billions on IoT, but still can’t patch Windows or remember passwords About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Huawei Watch GT 2 ups the ante in functionality Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada