https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/feddev-ontario-invests-into-everest-clinical-research-through-women-entrepreneurship-strategy/420930
FedDev Ontario invests into Everest Clinical Research through Women Entrepreneurship Strategy | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Public Sector FedDev Ontario invests into Everest Clinical Research through Women Entrepreneurship Strategy Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: August 15th, 2019 The federal government hopes to double the amount of women-owned businesses by 2025 with its $2 billion commitment through the Women Entrepreneurship Strategy. Currently, only 12.5 per cent of SMEs are owned by women. “Our government believes that women’s economic empowerment is not just the right thing to do; it’s good for the bottom line,” said Mary Ng, the minister for small business and export promotion, in a press release. “That’s why we launched the Women Entrepreneurship Strategy, a strategy that seeks to double the number of women-owned businesses by increasing their access to financing, networks and advice. It’s a smart investment with an economic and social return.” This morning, FedDev Ontario announced a $100,000 investment through this program into the Markham-based Everest Clinical Research Corp. Everest Clinical Research is a firm which conducts clinical research by contract for firms across the globe in fields such as pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, and medical devices. “The Women Entrepreneurship Strategy provides effective means to help women-owned businesses flourish and will continue to play a major part in advancing the role of women in Canada’s entrepreneurial landscape,” said Jin Dai, the senior director of business planning and operations for Everest Clinical Research. “By investing the funds into our clinical data analytics dashboard initiative, we will not only elevate the competitiveness of Everest Clinical Research in the industry and generate economic return but also help tangibly improve the efficiency and quality of clinical trials that produce new therapies to treat illnesses and improve people’s lives. Everest is a proud WEF recipient and will continue to nurture the next generation of clinical research and data science leaders in Canada.” According to the press release, this investment will allow them to develop a new data analytics and visualization dashboard application. Additionally, Everest intends to extend its market share in the United States as well as create three new jobs. Public Sector Everest Clinical Research, FedDev Ontario SAP admins warned to patch three fixes 'as soon as possible' Samsung Space monitor review: a gorgeous and space-conscious display About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content FedDev Ontario announces $4M investment in digital identity firm BioConnect FedDev Ontario announces $3M investment in Ottawa networking firm FedDev Ontario invests nearly $1.5M for Oakville manufacturing company to scaleup FedDev Ontario announces $500,000 investment in Weever Apps Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada