https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/city-of-markham-and-bell-partner-for-smar-city-initiative/414840
City of Markham and Bell partner for smart city initiative | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech City of Markham and Bell partner for smart city initiative Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: February 6th, 2019 The City of Markham has announced plans to integrate Bell’s Smart City platform, a collection of interconnected Internet of Things (IoT) sensors and technologies. Markham will use the platform’s IoT applications to monitor a range of infrastructure functions including equipment tracking, water leak detection, storm/flood monitoring, weather monitoring, and energy management. The data will be used for environmental studies and efficiency improvements, the city said Wednesday. One such benefit could be early flood warnings. For example, Richmond Hill uses sensors to monitor its stormwater pond and warn its city workers in case of an overflow. Similarly, Seattle flood monitoring stations can send SMS alerts to nearby property owners when it detects dangerous water levels. Another is preventing water loss from leakage. According to a Bell report, 20 per cent of treated water is lost to leaking pipes. Early detection and repairs could minimize water loss, service discontinuity, and road erosion. Markham mayor Frank Scarpitti described Markham as the “living lab” and an “incubator for innovation” in the heart of Canada’s innovation corridor that spans the Toronto region and Waterloo. “By embracing smart city technologies, we will continue to deliver exceptional services to our residents at lower costs and improve the quality of life,” he said in a statement. “This partnership with Bell speaks to Markham’s commitment to leveraging the latest digital tools and assets; keeping us connected in an age of great transformation while reinforcing Markham’s position as a municipal leader in the heart of Canada’s innovation corridor.” Gary Semplonius, Bell senior vice-president, said the city’s critical infrastructure and services will operate more efficiently through the Bell Smart City platform. “We’re proud to partner with Markham to extend the City’s technology leadership in the management of municipal operations and enhanced delivery of city services,” he said. To keep tabs on the sensors and collected data, Bell is working with IBM Canada to create a centralized management solution. In addition to Markham, Bell is partnering up with the City of Kingston to provide energy management and digital kiosks. The digital kiosks can provide Wi-Fi hotspots and cellphone charging stations in public areas. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech Bell, Bell Canada, IBM, IBM Canada, IoT, Markham Ontario launches talks on creating a provincial data strategy HashTag Trending - Gmail blocks more spam; Facebook lets you retract messages; Google detects compromised accounts About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Bell, Rogers, Telus and others temporarily remove internet data caps Expert says CRTC’s data plan proposals for telcos are ‘misguided’ Mitacs placing 400 interns with ENCQOR 5G network projects Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada