https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/think-multi-factor-authentication-cant-be-hacked-think-again/429022
Think multi-factor authentication can't be hacked?  Think again | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Think multi-factor authentication can’t be hacked? Think again Cindy Baker @itworldca Published: March 27th, 2020 Multi-factor authentication (MFA) is a good way to protect online accounts, but that doesn’t mean users should let their guard down, warns a security expert. MFA is generally stronger than simple password protection because users must provide two or more different sources to prove their identities. Watch on demand: Defeating Multi-Factor Authentication and Beating the Bad Guys “But if someone tells you it’s unhackable, you shouldn’t rely on them,” said Roger Grimes, a Data-Driven Defense Evangelist at KnowBe4 at a recent ITWC webinar. “Most people are startled when they see how easy it is.” Grimes said organizations should train their users to beware of potential scams, even if they’re using MFA. How hackers get around MFA Social engineering is responsible for 70 to 90 per cent of all data breaches and it is no different with MFA, said Grimes. One of the most common attacks is called “network session hijacking.” In this case, hackers use phishing emails to trick users into signing on to a fake website, then steal the users’ credentials and session token to take over their accounts. Similarly, another popular hack is to use phishing emails to gain access and unleash a virus on endpoints. “If the computer gets compromised, it’s game over,” said Grimes. “They could do anything you can do.” Last year, one group of hackers stole $100 million this way, he added. MFA methods that send authentication codes to cell phones via SMS are also vulnerable. For example, in the “SIM swap” scam, hackers get your logon information through a phishing email or call and then steal your SIM card information. This allows them to receive your SMS verification codes and reset your account password. “This happens thousands of times a day,” said Grimes. Account recovery questions, such as those that ask for your mother’s maiden name, are one of the worst forms of authentication. “These should be outlawed because most of the answers can be looked up,” said Grimes. “They can be guessed 20 per cent of the time or found on social profiles.” Biometrics used for authentication are also a common target for hackers. “Your fingerprints are everywhere, and once stolen, it’s compromised for life,” Grimes said. How to defend against MFA attacks The first line of defence is to include MFA hacking awareness in security training for employees. Employees should learn about how to spot rogue links and to check if a URL is legitimate. Although it can be difficult, users should try to avoid SMS-based applications. If they do use them, they should minimize any public posts of the phone number they use for account recovery. People should never trust someone who is calling unexpectedly or sending an SMS verification. They should also be suspicious if they’re asked to type an SMS pin code back into SMS, said Grimes. Usually, the code is entered on a web site. As for recovery questions, “don’t answer them honestly,” said Grimes. People should deliberately use wrong answers and write them down or store them in password managers The bottom line is that people have to realize that “nothing is unhackable,” Grimes said. “You can’t throw away your brain just because you’re using multi-factor authentication.” Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber attack, hacking, KnowBe4, multi-factor authentication, passwords Hashtag Trending - Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Cyber Security Today - Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks About Cindy Baker Cindy Baker has over 20 years of experience in IT-related fields in the public and private sectors, as a lawyer and strategic advisor. She is a former broadcast journalist, currently working as a consultant, freelance writer and editor. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Some Ontario beer chain outlets forced to use cash-only after cyber attack Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Is my iPhone snooping on my conversations? How to stonewall the hackers trying to to get around your MFA Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada