https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/city-of-ottawa-to-launch-311-ai-chatbot-powered-by-microsofts-power-virtual-agent/423713
City of Ottawa to launch 311 AI chatbot powered by Microsoft's Power Virtual Agent | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Digital Transformation Public Sector City of Ottawa to launch 311 AI chatbot powered by Microsoft’s Power Virtual Agent Tom Li @itworldca Published: November 6th, 2019 ORLANDO — The City of Ottawa has announced a new plan to pilot Microsoft’s Power Virtual Agent to increase the accessibility of its 311 services. Built in collaboration with Microsoft, Ottawa will begin piloting its new 311 AI chatbot in the first quarter of 2020. Users will be able to enter questions about the city’s services and receive immediate answers in a conversational format. “We will progressively cover more and more topics over time,” said Marc Rene de Cotret, director of service transformation for the City of Ottawa, to IT World Canada. “Eventually, I could see us migrate into more task-based things like maybe filling out an application for your permit or license.” Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella announced the Virtual Power Agent in his opening keynote at the Microsoft Ignite event in Orlando. As a no-code/low-code development tool, Virtual Power Agent allows anyone with little to no development experience to create their own chatbot. Using artificial intelligence, Virtual Power Agent would attempt to guess the developer’s intentions and provide the most relevant information to its users based on limited sets of criteria. The system is designed to self-improve over time based on customer feedback, which is why Ottawa heavily urges its citizens to participate in the pilot program. During the piloting phase, it will be used to answer questions about waste diversion and collect citizen feedback to improve the chatbot. Marc Rene de Cotret, director of service transformation for the city of Ottawa. Photo credit: Mike Gifford The initial rollout will be deployed as a chatbot built on the Microsoft Bot Framework. The chatbot will transition over to the Power Virtual Agent once a bilingual version is complete. While citizens will only be able to access the chatbot through Ottawa’s 311 website at launch, Rene de Cotret said the city isn’t discounting the possibility of a mobile version. “We very, very much want citizens to be part of that process of testing and helping us evolve the channel…And then over time, we would look at the various channels and make that available once we understand the kind of technology they want to consume it [on].” Instead of replacing humans, the new virtual agent will complement the existing 311 access channels. Rene de Cotret emphasized that the goal of the new virtual agent is to resolve simple questions from 311 call centers. “You can have a big spike in calls coming into 311. Having a virtual agent dealing with inquiries can help us mitigate that to some extent…And then we’d have another kind of solution as part of our toolkit so that we can allow agents to deal with more complex cases. In an emergency management situation, you want your agent to be handling not simple inquiries, but complex cases,” explained Rene de Cotret. The new chatbot would also provide less friction for people who don’t want to speak to a live person to find out information. Artificial Intelligence, Digital Transformation, Public Sector azure, Canadian government, Microsoft, Ottawa, public services Trend Micro admits staffer stole and sold customer data Rogers launches its first 5G smart campus in Canada at UBC About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited A quick guide for businesses navigating Canada’s COVID-19 Economic Response Plan Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada