https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-the-tech-clash-is-coming-macs-and-viruses-tech-startups-flood-kenya/427361
Hashtag Trending - The 'Tech Clash' is coming, Macs and viruses, tech startups flood Kenya | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – The ‘Tech Clash’ is coming, Macs and viruses, tech startups flood Kenya Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: February 14th, 2020 A new report says the collision between business and technology models is causing headaches, the latest stats suggest Macs are more prone to adware infections than PCs, and tech startups are closing in on Kenya. It’s less of a “tech-lash” and more of a “tech-clash”, according to a new report from research and consulting firm Accenture. More than 52 per cent of consumers say that technology is ingrained into nearly every part of their day-to-day, and 19 per cent report that technology is so intertwined in their lives that they view it as an extension of themselves. The chatter on LinkedIn upon the report’s release is about the challenge for businesses in the next decade. It won’t be about reducing consumers’ use of tech but rather providing more “human-focused experiences” that quell those privacy and ethical fears. Easier said than done, I gotta say. A recently published A Malwarebytes report says threats to Mac computers “increased exponentially” over the last year compared to Windows PCs. Yes, there was a time when malware bounced off Macs like bullets bounce off Superman, but PCs have closed the gap. That’s because Macs have taken a larger piece of the computer market pie, and as a result, become an attractive target for cybercriminals dolling out adware and what Malwarebytes calls “potentially unwanted programs”, or PUPs. And lastly, there’s a lot of talk on Twitter about Tala and other companies bringing quick loans wrapped in the language of “financial inclusion” to developing countries. The big discussion point: As Tala and other startups flood Kenya with apps offering high-interest loans, are they empowering the poor or profiting from desperation? According to Bloomberg, Tala has made $1 billion in microloans to people in developing countries, all using its app. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Privacy expert calls Toronto police’s use of Clearview AI ‘appalling’ Cyber Security Today - The latest FBI Internet crime report, adware on the rise, attacks on Wi-Fi and more About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada