https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/telus-to-provide-free-high-speed-internet-to-low-income-families-for-60-days-in-response-to-covid-29-crisis/429046
Telus says it's providing free high-speed internet to low-income families for 60 days in response to COVID-29 | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Mobility Wireless & IoT Telus says it’s providing free high-speed internet to low-income families for 60 days in response to COVID-29 Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: March 27th, 2020 Telus is extending its support for low-income families by waiving all fees for its Internet for Good program for two months, the company announced today. This means customers enrolled in the program will have access to high-speed internet in their home at no cost for 60 days. The company says that currently, over 200,000 Canadian families, who receive the maximum Canada Child Benefit, qualify for this program. Introduced in 2016, the Telus Internet for Good program offers low-cost monthly internet service at $9.95 and access to free digital literacy training and an inexpensive computer. “Reflecting TELUS’ longstanding commitment to leveraging our technology, in combination with our culture of giving, to bridge social and economic digital divides, our team is working diligently – with their hearts and their hands – to keep our communities and customers connected throughout this unprecedented time in history,” said Darren Entwistle, president and chief executive officer of Telus, in a press release. “By increasing our support for low-income Canadians through our Internet for Good program, we are helping families prioritize their well-being during this pandemic.” Related: Telus to donate $10 million to address public healthcare crisis Those who have received either a letter from the British Columbia Ministry of Social Development and Poverty Reduction with a unique access code can sign up into the program by calling Telus at 1-866-835-8744, while the ones who have received a letter from the Government of Canada with a unique access code can sign up by visiting connecting-families.ca. The company has also waived all Easy Roam, Travel Passes and pay-per-use roaming charges for postpaid and small business customers until April 30, 2020, in response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, it’s offering flexible payment options for consumer and small business customers who have been financially affected by the crisis, as well as free educational activities encouraging families to ‘Learn, Do and Share’ with Microsoft. Telus also announced today a $500,000 donation to the University of British Columbia (UBC) Hospital Foundation, Vancouver General Hospital (VGH) and Vancouver Prostate Centre (VPC) to assist in the search for therapeutic antiviral treatments for COVID-19. “Funding will help to expand our resources, including scientists, research assistants, reagents, equipment and operational costs. We encourage more organizations to help fund this vital research,” said Dr. Larry Goldenberg, director of development at VPC and UBC, professor of urologic sciences, and recipient of the Order of British Columbia, and member of the Order of Canada, in a separate press release. Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility, Wireless & IoT broadband Internet, COVID-19, Internet, Internet access, Telus Huawei Watch GT 2 ups the ante in functionality Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Insulating your business from COVID-19 impacts TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada