https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/paranoid-privacy-tool-can-jam-your-smart-speakers-microphone/427141
Paranoid privacy tool can jam your smart speaker's microphone | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Paranoid privacy tool can jam your smart speaker’s microphone Tom Li @itworldca Published: February 11th, 2020 With smart home devices proliferating, the secondary effect of privacy is becoming a concern. While a majority of consumers are not paying attention to proper security practices when installing a smart device, unrest is burning in those who are. Paranoid Inc., a subsidiary to the Alberta-based Pleasant solutions, is extra vigilant on disabling smart homes’ prying ears. To improve the privacy of smart speakers, it has created an attachment that physically blocks the microphone from activating. Paranoid comes in three configurations. First, there’s the Paranoid Home Button, the most intuitive solution. When plugged in, it holds down the microphone’s mute button unless the user announces the “Paranoid” wake-word. There’s just one caveat: the device must have a physical mute button for the robotic arm to press on. An example of a compatible product is the Amazon Echo Dot. Paranoid Home Button looks like a tadpole and connects to the smart speaker’s USB port. Image source: Paranoid But it’s Paranoid Home Wave where it gets really interesting. For smart speakers without a home button, users can opt for the Paranoid Home Wave. In what resembles a military operation, the Paranoid Home Wave generates noise and interference to jam the smart speaker’s microphone. The user must give Paranoid’s wake word to stop its jamming and issue the voice command. For the ultra-cautious crowd, Paranoid offers the Home Max. It isn’t a device, per se, but more of a service where you ship off your smart speaker to be lobotomized. Paranoid techs physically re-routes the speaker’s microphone circuitry through a Paranoid’s device. In the event that the smart speaker receives an update that prevents the Paranoid Home Max alteration from working, Paranoid would simply release a follow-up update that would work around the issue. Paranoid Home Max essentially hijacks your smart speaker’s circuitry. In its press release, Paranoid guarantees that Paranoid would never connect to the internet and that it lacks the components to do so. Paranoid updates are distributed via music files played through any regular speaker. In an email, a Paranoid engineer assured IT Business that the audio data would be encrypted and signed. In addition, the Paranoid module can only receive and not transmit. Paranoid aims to outfit its attachment to every major brand of smart speakers. They’ll first be available in Canada and the U.S. for $49 each or $129 for a pack of three. Correction: The original article incorrectly stated that the Paranoid Home Button needed to be physically pressed. Instead, it’s deactivated via voice command. The article has been amended to reflect the update. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security IoT, privacy, smart speaker, smarthomes Configuration mistakes blamed for bulk of stolen records last year: IBM Ceridian says it plans to create 2,000 jobs in Canada over five years About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content COVID-19: Toronto mayor sparks debate on possible use of cellphone data for infection detection During a crisis, use and disclosure of personal information may be extended, ‘can be very broad’ says regulator Canadian privacy czar takes Facebook to court over Cambridge Analytica scandal No expectation of privacy in an IP address, Alberta judge rules Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada