https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/from-windows-7-to-windows-10-a-migration-guide/414501
From Windows 7 to Windows 10: A migration guide | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Emerging Tech Software From Windows 7 to Windows 10: A migration guide Lynn Greiner @lynngr Published: February 6th, 2019 For any IT pro who’s been around for more than five years, déjà vu must be setting in. It’s “scramble to get onto a supported desktop operating system (OS)” time, just as it was in early 2014, when Windows XP’s end-of-support loomed. This time, however, it could be the last forklift OS upgrade, as Microsoft shifts its OS strategy. That won’t ease the pain today, but in theory, at least, the move from Windows 7 to Windows 10 marks the company’s change from revolution to evolution of its operating systems and applications. It has dubbed this the “Modern Desktop.” That said, Microsoft provides plenty of resources to get companies over the hump. Chief among them is the Modern Desktop Deployment Center. It provides a checklist of the topics IT must consider for a successful migration to Windows 10 (and to Office 365 – Office 2010 also reaches end-of-life when Windows 7 does, so Microsoft encourages customers to swap it out at the same time). And lest customers worry about app compatibility with the OS switch, it has developed a program called Desktop App Assure, a service that provides application remediation to customers migrating to Windows 10 and Office 365 ProPlus at no extra cost through the FastTrack Center benefit. Not that many applications will need remediation – Microsoft says that of the 7,000 applications submitted for evaluation (out of 41,000 that customers had deployed), only 49 needed attention. The first thing to do when migrating to Windows 10, of course, is inventory existing PCs. There may still be a few knocking around that don’t meet the Windows 10 minimum requirements. They will need replacing if the user needs to be on a supported version of Windows (for security’s sake, that should be everyone). To check out existing PCs for other compatibility issues, run either the Windows 10 Compatibility Scan, or Windows Analytics Upgrade Readiness. Microsoft also encourages the switch from BIOS to UEFI, where possible, and is pushing companies to switch to Azure Active Directory. Next, think about physical resources: disk space (a bare-bones Windows 10 image needs about 3 GB, a customized one 6 GB or more; both need an additional 100 MB – 1 GB of space for driver packages), and network bandwidth for transferring images, software updates, and restoration of user files, applications, and settings. Companies using browser-based apps should thoroughly check them out under Microsoft Edge, the default browser in Windows 10. It can be, shall we say, a difficult piece of software (there’s a full revamp of it in the works, to be based on the Chromium engine, so be prepared to do some revalidation once it emerges); fortunately, IT can use Enterprise Mode and Group Policy to force problematic sites and apps to open in Internet Explorer 11 instead. Microsoft offers several options for migrating user files and settings; it even explains how to use PowerShell to customize Start Menus and Taskbars. It also provides suggestions on building and deploying images, as well as a discussion of the new update model. Finally, the deployment centre finishes its checklist with possibly the most important piece: the care and feeding (or at least training) of users. As every IT pro knows, users accept new things more readily when they’ve been kept informed and have some input into the process. For IT pros looking to check out Windows 10 and Office 365 without having to download and install them, there’s the Modern Desktop Deployment and Management Lab Kit, a virtual lab environment that Microsoft says is “designed to help you plan, test and validate your deployment and management of modern desktops running Windows 10 Enterprise and Office 365 ProPlus. The labs cover the steps and tools outlined in the Modern Desktop Deployment wheel, spanning System Center Configuration Manager, Windows Analytics, Office Customization Tool, OneDrive, Windows Autopilot and more.” And, it’s free. Careers, Emerging Tech, Software Microsoft, system migration, windows 10, Windows 7 North Focals review: an impressive and stylish try at smart glasses Cyber Security Today: U.S. restaurant chain hacked, attack uses real document, patch open office suites About Lynn Greiner Lynn Greiner has been interpreting tech for businesses for over 20 years and has worked in the industry as well as writing about it, giving her a unique perspective into the issues companies face. She has both IT credentials and a business degree. Follow Follow @lynngr on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Hiring neurodiverse people has given us an edge, says AirGate CEO Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada