https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/vector-institute-for-ai-to-get-a-new-home-in-u-of-t-innovation-centre/407747
Vector Institute for AI to get a new home in U of T 'innovation centre' | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Careers Infrastructure Leadership Vector Institute for AI to get a new home in U of T ‘innovation centre’ Meagan Simpson @megesimpson Published: August 3rd, 2018 Taking yet another step into the technology industry, the University of Toronto (U of T) recently announced its plans to build a brand new ‘innovation’ centre in downtown Toronto. The centre will be home to the Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence, the university’s entrepreneurship office as well start-up companies and university partners, stated the release. The 250,00 square foot space will replace the school’s existing building at the corner of College Street and University Avenue and according to the release will significantly increase its capacity to “impact the Canadian economy.” Rendering of phase one of the of innovation centre. Source: University of Toronto “U of T has produced more than 500 companies that have collectively generated more than $1 billion in investment in the past decade. Since 2010, the university has also filed more than 400 patent applications and negotiated over 250 license agreements related to technologies developed by its researchers,” stated the release. Set to be a two-phase project, the first tower will be 14 stories tall and consist of office and instructional spaces as well as meeting rooms, lounges and public areas. Rendering of the inside of the innovation building Source: University of Toronto Rendering of the inside of the innovation building Source: University of Toronto The university is hoping the layout will create an environment where students, entrepreneurs and industry leaders can interact and collaborate. “If you purpose-build a building to support interaction, collaboration and the growth of spin-off companies, you get a much higher success rate,” explained University of Toronto’s vice-president of operations Scott Mabury, in the release. This announcement came almost a week before the University of Toronto also announced a artificial intelligence (AI) partnership with LG Electronics Inc., which our sister site ITBusiness.ca reported on as a new collaborative research lab. The university continues to delve into the world of technology as it calls this project an expansion of other existing partnerships, including one with the MaRS Innovation Members Institute. Designed by the New York-based Weiss/Manfredi Architects and Toronto’s Teeple Architects, the first building is expected to be completed in 2021. Artificial Intelligence, Careers, Infrastructure, Leadership AI, architecture, artificial intelligence, MaRS, Toronto, University of Toronto, Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence Cyber Security Today: Text message trouble, and another parcel courier scam Meet the 6 Canadian innovators that will lead the nation-wide digital transformation discussion About Meagan Simpson Meagan Simpson is a Jr. staff writer for IT World Canada. A graduate of Carleton University’s journalism program, she loves sports, travelling, reading and photography, and when not covering tech news she can be found cuddled up on the couch with her cat and a good book. Follow Follow @megesimpson on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content The bad guys are arming themselves with AI, but so are we, says Darktrace’s country manager for Canada A new Google Cloud Platform region to come to Toronto 10 women advancing AI in Canada Gartner says nearly half of privacy compliance technology to rely on AI by 2023 Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada