https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/nude-photo-hacker-sentenced-apple-buys-ar-startup-google-calls-bs-on-trumps-conspiracy-theory/408510
Hashtag Trending – Nude photo hacker sentenced; Apple buys AR startup; Google calls BS on Trump's conspiracy theory | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Nude photo hacker sentenced; Apple buys AR startup; Google calls BS on Trump’s conspiracy theory Shruti Shekar @shruti_shekar Published: August 31st, 2018 The hacker that stole celebrity nudes is sentenced to jail, Apple buys an augmented reality startup, and Google is calling BS on U.S. President Donald Trump’s conspiracy theory on rigged search results. Trending on Twitter: the hacker involved in exposing nude photos of Academy Award winner Jennifer Lawrence and other celebrities is going to jail for eight months. George Garofano was accused of illegally hacking 240 private Apple iCloud accounts in 2014. He was one of four individuals who were involved in the hacking. The accounts belonged to several actors including Lawrence, Kate Upton, and Kirsten Dunst. Garofano pleaded guilty in April and said he sent emails to the victims while acting as an Apple online security personnel, so he could get their personal login information. The three other hackers have received sentences of terms between nine and 18 months in jail. Next up trending on LinkedIn is news of Apple buying Akonia Holographics, a startup dedicated to making lenses for augmented reality glasses. Reuters reported that the acquisition could mean that Apple is dabbling with the idea of developing a wearable device. Apple hasn’t discussed it’s motives though. According to Akonia’s website it has more than 200 patents related to holographic systems and materials. Finally trending on Reddit, Google is calling BS on U.S. President Donald Trump’s tweets that claim Google’s search results are being rigged against him. Earlier this week Trump accused Google and other tech giants of suppressing conservative voices. Trump’s team even put together a video highlighting how Google featured links to live streams of former President Barack Obama’s State of the Union addresses but not his. A Google spokesperson told Gizmodo that Trump’s claims weren’t true. Careers Apple, augmented reality, Donald Trump, Google, hacking, hashtag trending, privacy Intel announces new 8th-Gen Core processors at IFA Cyber Security Today: How to keep spam from filling your inbox About Shruti Shekar Shruti Shekar is a video producer and reporter for IT World Canada. She was formerly a political reporter at The Hill Times and was based in Ottawa. Her beats included political culture, lobbying, telecom and technology, and the diplomatic community. She was also was the editor of The Lobby Monitor, and a reporter at The Wire Report; two trade publications that are part of The Hill Times. She received a MA in journalism from Western University and a double BA honours in communication studies and human rights from Carleton University. She was born in India, grew up mostly in Singapore and currently resides in Canada. Follow Follow @shruti_shekar on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Think multi-factor authentication can’t be hacked? Think again Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations COVID-19: Toronto mayor sparks debate on possible use of cellphone data for infection detection Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada