https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/xerox-acquires-digitex-canada/428237
Xerox acquires Digitex Canada | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Leadership Xerox acquires Digitex Canada Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: March 6th, 2020 Nope, it’s not HP, but this morning Xerox announced that it’s acquired one of Western Canada’s largest independent solution providers in Digitex Canada. “We’re expanding our footprint in the fast-growing North America small and midsize business market (SMB) with our acquisition of Digitex Canada,” said Mike Feldman, president of Americas operations at Xerox, in a press release. “With Digitex Canada’s geographical presence, strong SMB customer base, and technology and services expertise, we are well placed to bring our growing portfolio of workplace technology solutions to new customers seeking a modern work experience.” Digitex president and chief executive officer said the move “gives our customers access to the industry’s most comprehensive portfolio that supports their digital transformation requirements and ensures a secure and sustainable experience.” The announcement comes after Xerox’s latest attempt to convince HP’s shareholders to let Xerox buy the company. On March 2, Xerox launched a tender offer to acquire all outstanding shares of HP for $24 per share, repeating previous claims that suggest the two companies combined would yield $2 billion in cost savings and more than $1 billion in additional revenue growth. Xerox also recently announced Virtual Print Management Service and Workplace Cloud Fleet Management for SMBs. Xerox Virtual Print Management Service is a subscription service for the always-on-the-go users that could save time by printing from any device, network or location. Xerox Workplace Cloud Fleet Management offers customers the ability to push on-demand security updates for individual printers or the entire fleet from a single dashboard. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Leadership acquisition, digitex, HP, xerox Toronto's Collision conference goes online due to coronavirus Koodo admits February data breach, data already being sold on dark web About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Intel processor constraint to continue in 2020, says HPE HP Elite Dragonfly hands-on review: style and productivity in one package Sponsored By: HP Shaking Things Up with the Right Ingredients Reinventing recycling in the workplace: shifting mindsets from the inside-out Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada