https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canadian-businesses-lagging-in-network-innovation-to-support-digital-transformation-says-cisco-report/423618
Canadian businesses lagging in network innovation to support digital transformation, says Cisco report | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by kynny via Getty Images Digital Transformation Emerging Tech Infrastructure Canadian businesses lagging in network innovation to support digital transformation, says Cisco report Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: November 4th, 2019 Canada lags far behind other nations in terms of strategic implementation of projects and networking innovations that support digital transformation, spotlights Cisco’s recently released 2020 Global Networking Trends Report. Canada ranks 11th among 13 countries, in terms of its digital transformation approach, with only 40 per cent of IT leaders in Canada reporting their firms have strategically implemented projects to support digital transformation. But even those projects don’t seem to have a clear strategy, suggests Cisco’s research. About a quarter of network architecture in the country has been found to be at minimum maturity stage. Twenty-three per cent of network strategists and Canadian IT leaders reported their network architectures are ‘best-effort’, the minimum level of maturity, compared to only eight per cent on average. In just two years, however, they expect to advance in maturity to ‘software-defined’ (29 per cent), ‘service-driven’ (44 per cent) or ‘intent-based’ networking (21 per cent). Money and constant maintenance have been identified to be the biggest obstacles getting in the way of network modernization in Canada. Fifty-three per cent of Canadian IT leaders expressed that the ‘lack of analytics-based architecture tools and/or budget or resources to implement automation’ was the biggest issue. Thirty-seven per cent reported ‘being too busy maintaining current network to consider network transformation opportunities’ as another obstacle to network modernization. Organizations are finally wrapping their heads around software-defined networking, but some work remains to reach a complete service-driven mentality. Infographic from the 2020 Global Networking Technology Report. Forty-seven per cent of network strategists said that investing in new network infrastructure equipment can be the most helpful thing to do to achieve the ideal vision of the network. Cisco surveyed 2061 respondents (IT strategists and network strategists) across 13 countries – Canada, the U.S., the U.K., Brazil, China, Singapore, Australia, Germany, India, France, Mexico, Korea and Japan – to explore how networking models and operations are being transformed by advanced networking technologies. There were 130 respondents from Canada. As per the overall findings of the survey, 50 per cent of the 1556 network strategists surveyed across different countries identified artificial intelligence as a priority investment needed to deliver their ideal network, impacting all technology mega trends. Across the 13 countries surveyed by Cisco, the majority of IT leaders identified the lack of professional services as the biggest obstacle to network modernization. The report also found that IT must break silos in organizations that face significant operational and talent gaps. In addition, intent-based networking (IBN) has been found to be capable of fulfilling the unmet needs of service-driven networking, while AI has been found to accelerate IBN transformation and augment human mental capabilities. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Emerging Tech, Infrastructure Cisco, cisco canada, digital transformation, Information Technology, IT Infrastructure Over the last year, 28 million Canadians impacted by data breaches: privacy commissioner The importance of a holistic cybersecurity approach About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cisco commits $225 million to COVID-19 response CIOs worry about people, capacity and security as COVID-19 crisis grows Cisco leadership undergoes another shuffle involving Amy Chang and David Goeckeler In response to COVID-19, Cisco is handing out free 90-day Webex business licenses Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada