https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-new-huawei-foldable-phone-googles-new-montreal-game-studio-google-bricks-google-home-speakers/423273
Hashtag Trending – New Huawei foldable phone; Google's new Montreal game studio; Google bricks Google home speakers | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – New Huawei foldable phone; Google’s new Montreal game studio; Google bricks Google home speakers Tom Li @itworldca Published: October 25th, 2019 Huawei to launch Mate Xs foldable smartphone in March 2020, Montreal will be the first city to house a Google stadia game studio, Google bricks a number of devices through firmware update. Thank you for tuning in to Hashtag Trending, It’s Friday, Oct. 25th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. The Huawei Mate X foldable phone has just been released in China for around US$2,400 and Huawei has already announced a tweaked version. Trending on Google, Huawei has announced the Mate Xs foldable smartphone. The detail is sparse, but we do know that it will use Huawei’s new Kirin 990 chipset, support 5G, folds in half, and arrive in March 2020. Fingers crossed that it can make it to the great north next time. Trending on Google, Montreal will be the first city to nest a Google Stadia game studio. The studio will be used exclusively to develop games for Stadia, Google’s game streaming service. This new game development center is not only the first Stadia studio, but also Google’s first gaming studio. In its blog post, Google has called for game designers and directors to fill its office space. Visit the link in our transcript to see if you fit the bill. If your Google Home speaker has suddenly stopped working, then it could be due to Google’s own firmware update. Trending on Reddit, Google has apparently bricked a number of Google Home devices through software updates. Affected devices would become completely unresponsive to commands. Some users fixed theirs through a power cycle, while others had better luck with factory resets, but a group could not fix theirs no matter the method. Google said it will soon address the problem and is willing to replace the bricked devices. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts ESET hunts down the developer and operator of Android adware affecting 8 million users Cyber Security Today - What to do when ransomware hits, another kind of ransom attack and bad Android and Apple apps About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada