https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/researchers-find-open-microsoft-database-with-250-million-support-records/426342
Researchers find open Microsoft database with 250 million support records | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Researchers find open Microsoft database with 250 million support records Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: January 22nd, 2020 Configuration mistakes by staff can be a huge embarrassment to organizations, defeating even the biggest IT security budget. Often these mistakes result in databases of sensitive information being left open on the internet for a lucky hacker to trip over. The latest publicly-identified victim is Microsoft. Researchers at Comparitech, a U.K.-based site that reviews consumer IT security products said this morning they recently found five Elasticsearch servers belonging to the software giant with identical copies of nearly 250 million customer service and support exposed without password or other authentication needed for access. The records contained logs of conversations between Microsoft support agents and customers from all over the world, spanning a 14-year period from 2005 to last December. All of the data was left accessible to anyone with a web browser, with no password or other authentication needed. Microsoft quickly secured the data after being notified. Independent researcher Bob Diachenko, who lead the team, was quoted as saying most of the personally identifiable information such as email aliases, contract numbers, and payment information was redacted in the data. However, many records contained plain text data, including customer email addresses, IP addresses, locations, descriptions of claims and cases, Microsoft support agent emails, case numbers, resolutions, and remarks, and internal notes marked as “confidential”. One can speculate that a Microsoft employee wanting to look for trends in the customer support data figured with the personally identifiable information redacted the database didn’t need to be password protected. However, Comparitech argues that readable data could still be valuable to hackers, particularly to give credibility to those involved in Microsoft tech support scams. For example, knowing a customer’s email address would allow a scammer to craft an email starting “Following up on your recent support incident.” Diachenko is one of several researchers who use the Shodan search engine to find and expose companies with unprotected databases, often sitting on Amazon AWS infrastructure. In 2018 he found a MongoDB server of data management company Veeam Software. Just over a year ago he and a team found an open database belonging to a Texas data processing company. Other researchers are also finding easy pickings. In 2018 one found Canadian and British government staffers misconfigured some of their web-based Trello project management software and exposed details of software bugs and security plans, as well as passwords for servers and other sensitive information. Many of these discoveries — as in the Microsoft case — are repositories of data held by Elasticsearch searches. Last summer, for example, Canadian security consultant Darryl Burke found two open Elasticsearch databases, one of which held sensitive personal information of Middle East residents looking to immigrate to Canada. Elasticsearch is an open-source analytics search engine organizations use to hunt through their data. What many companies don’t realize, Burke said in an interview at the time, is that it keeps a cache of data it indexes. If the Elasticsearch server is open to the Internet but not secured with a username and password — and, ideally, two-factor authentication — then that data is open to discovery by an attacker. To combat misconfigurations cloud storage providers like Amazon AWS and Microsoft Azure are either making storage closed to the Internet by default or beefing up their security detection tools. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Microsoft, postmedia Hashtag Trending - Huawei CFO hearing; Apple bends to FBI; North shotgunning patents Investor relations tech firm opening new office in Hamilton, 'we're getting in early' says CEO About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada