https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/servicenow-announces-bill-mcdermott-as-new-ceo-days-after-his-exit-from-sap/423158
ServiceNow announces Bill McDermott as new CEO days after his exit from SAP | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Leadership ServiceNow announces Bill McDermott as new CEO days after his exit from SAP Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: October 22nd, 2019 Days after exiting as SAP’s chief executive officer, Bill McDermott has been named the CEO of ServiceNow, the software company announced today. McDermott is replacing John Donahoe, whose exit from the company was announced at the same time in a separate press release. Danohoe is moving on to become the CEO of Nike after serving as ServiceNow’s CEO since 2017. He will remain on the Board of Nike where he has been a member since 2014. Last week SAP announced that McDermott will be replaced executive boards members Jennifer Morgan and Christian Klein in a co-chief executive officer structure “I consider it a personal honor to succeed John,” McDermott said in a prepared statement, adding he was “fired up” to help “carry ServiceNow’s proud legacy forward to the next chapter.” The news was accompanied by ServiceNow’s preliminary third quarter 2019 financial results. Third quarter revenue will come to $885.8 million, a 32 per cent increase from a year ago. Subscription billings during that time were $864 million. The company said Q3 revenue will come to $885.8 million, up 32 per cent from a year ago. Subscription billings for the third quarter were $864 million. For the full year 2019, ServiceNow expects subscription revenues to be between $3.24 billion and $3.25 billion and subscription billings to be between $3.74 billion and $3.75 billion. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Leadership McDermott, postmedia, SAP, ServiceNow Microsoft acquires Mover to make file migration to Microsoft 365 easier Cyber Security Today - NordVPN hacked, Alexa and Google Home vulnerabilities, and update these antivirus apps About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada