https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/free-online-screening-and-consultation-for-covid-19-launched-by-maple/428490
Free online screening and consultation for COVID-19 launched by Maple | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Mobility Public Sector Software Maple launches free online screening and consultation solution in response to COVID-19 Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: March 16th, 2020 While health officials do their best to contain COVID-19, virtual healthcare solutions provider Maple is doing what it can to quell those concerns by launching a free online screening tool and access to a live doctor for residents of Ontario. Starting March 17, Ontario residents with a valid health card will be able to access these consultations from getmaple.ca and speak to a doctor through either an audio or video channel to discuss their symptoms and whether or not they should go for further testing or treatment. The solution is covered by OHIP and will be accessible from here. Following the appointment, people can have their results faxed over to their family physician or a local screening centre for next steps. “Connecting concerned patients, who are receiving conflicting information from every angle, with licensed Canadian doctors from the safety of their homes is simply the right thing to do,” said Dr. Brett Belchetz, the chief executive officer and co-founder of Maple, in a press release. “We’re already seeing a strong increase in the need for virtual health services across the country. We hope that in the coming weeks, other provincial governments will follow Ontario’s example and open billing codes to allow video or telephone programs to expand across the country. It’s the best way to ensure safe access to healthcare in this time of self-isolation and social distancing.” This is not yet available in other provinces due to healthcare plan laws and regulations not allowing for physicians to bill for online appointments, the company noted. Maple will also provide its virtual clinic software to all Ontario and B.C. physicians at no charge. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Mobility, Public Sector, Software coronavirus, COVID-19, healthcare, postmedia, virtual healthcare COVID-19 crisis could spur on digital transformation Only a select few are allowed to build apps related to COVID-19, says Apple About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Insulating your business from COVID-19 impacts TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada