https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-data-breaches-not-so-smart-devices-privacy-learning-games-for-kids-and-cloned-debit-cards/421476
Cyber Security Today – Data breaches, not so smart devices, privacy learning games for kids and cloned debit cards | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – Data breaches, not so smart devices, privacy learning games for kids and cloned debit cards Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: September 4th, 2019 Data breaches, not so smart devices, privacy learning games for kids and cloned debit cards Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Wednesday September 4th. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanada.com. I’ve been away for a week so am behind in the latest events. Here’s a roundup: If you haven’t been told by now, those who have accounts with Foxit Software for using the Foxit PDF reader need to reset your passwords when you log in. That’s because there’s been a data breach. Email addresses, real names and phone numbers are among the information stolen. Also breached was XKCD, a web comics platform. According to The Hacker News, it is believed attackers access some 562,000 usernames and email addresses as well as scrambled passwords. The site’s forums have been offline for several days until administrators are sure they’re secure. Meanwhile subscribers are being warned to change any passwords for other sites where they use the same or a similar one they used on XKCD. Attention parents: Canada’s privacy commissioner has released a couple of activity sheets to help you talk to your children about privacy. They are in the form of games, like Privacy Snakes and Ladders, and Learning About Passwords, which challenges kids to create a strong eight-character password by filling in the blanks. To get them, hit this link to the Privacy Commissioner of Canada website. The ability to connect personal devices like cars, refrigerators, TVs and such to the Internet may give useful capabilities. But these so-called smart products, which often require you to set up an account with the manufacturer, also come with security risks. That’s what one American found after he returned a bunch of Philips smart lightbulbs. According to a Twitter thread from this guy, the company merely put the WiFi-controlled bulbs back online and sold them to a woman. However, he didn’t delete his Philips account, which was linked to the lightbulb and would be used for updates. As a result even though the new buyer created her own account the Internet platform was sending him messages on his account for her with personal information, like her name and email address. So the lesson is if you return any Internet-connected device you’ve registered — or resell it yourself — make sure to delete your online account. A Philips official says the product should have been reset by the company when returned before being put back for sale to prevent this. Here’s a worrying report: Criminals have stolen more than $1.5 million from customers of a German bank by cloning their Mastercard debit cards and cashing out customers’ fund in Brazil. This despite the fact that the cards had special chips that are supposed to protect them from being copied. According to the ZDNet news service, the German bank said only 2,000 customers were affected. All have had the stolen money replaced. One expert interviewed said banks have to do a better job of detecting suspicious transactions, like a card issued in one country but being used to suddenly withdraw funds in another. Apparently security on chip cards has to improve as well. Finally, for those who use the Firefox browser, version 69 was released Tuesday. It disables Adobe Flash video and slide show player, which has been used by hackers for years as a way to attack computers. The browser now always asks user permission before activating Flash on a website. The new version also includes a feature that blocks tracking cookies left by third parties. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Hashtag Trending - Classrooms ban phones, Facebook rethinking ‘likes’, Airbnb versus rental market Some Android phones susceptible to settings attack, says security vendor About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada