https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-amazon-workers-union-android-apps-share-data-with-facebook-1000-to-quit-facebook/413549
Hashtag Trending: Amazon workers' union; Android apps share data with Facebook; $1,000 to quit Facebook? | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Privacy & Security Wireless & IoT Hashtag Trending: Amazon workers’ union; Android apps share data with Facebook; $1,000 to quit Facebook? Meagan Simpson @megesimpson Published: January 3rd, 2019 Amazon warehouse workers increase demands for a union, Facebook is tracking data from Android apps, and it’s not illegal, and how much money would you take to walk away from Facebook for a year? First up from Reddit: “We are not robots. We are human beings.” Are the protests from Amazon warehouse workers that are leading a push to unionize. Employees from Amazon’s New York facility are the latest workers to protest against working conditions at its fulfillment centres. The American employees began the push on December 12th, and they are not alone -in 2018 Amazon workers from the U.K., Germany, Italy, Spain and Minnesota protested against the company’s labour practices. According to a report from The Guardian quoting an anonymous employee “[Amazon] overworks you, and you’re like a number to them.” The employee claimed that during Prime week he worked 60 hours which led to a bad car accident after he fell asleep behind the wheel. Other complaints include workers not being allowed bathroom breaks, not being treated well after injuries and other safety issues. According to the report, Amazon has said it doesn’t recognize these allegations and “we encourage anyone to compare our pay, benefits and workplace to other major employers across the country.” Next up from Reddit: A report from charity watch group Privacy International has found that most Android apps are sending user data to Facebook even if the user doesn’t have a Facebook account. And for those that do have an account Facebook can still collect data if you’re not logged in. Now this probably sounds a little terrifying, given the issues last year surrounding personal data and privacy that featured the social media giant. However, this data collection is not illegal. It is part of Facebook’s SDK for Android. A tool that allows developers to integrate features like Facebook login to their app. The data is collected to build consumer habit profiles. A Facebook spokesperson apparently told Yahoo News that it “requires developers to ensure they have an appropriate legal basis to collect and process users’ information.” Finally trending on Google: Speaking of Facebook, how much money would it take for you to give it up for a year? Well a new study has found that the average American is willing to walk away from the social media site for only $1,000. Given the site’s headline filled year it may not be so surprising that people are willing to give it up. What about you – how much would it take to give up Facebook for one year? Tweet us @itworldca and let us know. Careers, Privacy & Security, Wireless & IoT Amazon, android apps, Facebook, hashtag trending, podcasts BlackBerry Key2 LE review: privacy and security for cheap (ish) Horror stories show need to scrutinize industrial control systems About Meagan Simpson Meagan Simpson is a Jr. staff writer for IT World Canada. A graduate of Carleton University’s journalism program, she loves sports, travelling, reading and photography, and when not covering tech news she can be found cuddled up on the couch with her cat and a good book. Follow Follow @megesimpson on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada