https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ottawa-hospital-announces-partnership-to-democratize-its-data-throughout-the-organization/427384
Ottawa Hospital announces partnership to democratize its data throughout the organization | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. The Ottawa Hospital hopes their new data platform will give greater visibility into the patient journey. Credit: Julie Oliver/Postmedia Big Data & Analytics Digital Transformation Public Sector Ottawa Hospital announces partnership to democratize its data throughout the organization Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: February 19th, 2020 The Ottawa Hospital has entered into a partnership with an Israeli data analytics solutions provider to democratize the data across its organization and give their employees greater visibility over the entire patient journey, the hospital announced this week. “MDClone’s technology is helping The Ottawa Hospital deliver 21st-century healthcare to our patients,” said Dr. Alan Forster, the vice president of innovation and quality at the Ottawa Hospital, in a press release. “The platform’s ability to help our physicians and researchers visualize, analyze, and share high-value clinical insights while protecting patient privacy is an important part of providing world-class care and better outcomes for our patients. With this collaboration, Ottawa Hospital is leading Ontario and Canada in building the infrastructure for effective, secure innovation.” Related: Google publicizes Ascension partnership after healthcare data reveal Based out of Israel, MDClone was established just three years ago and has developed what it calls “the world’s first Healthcare Data Sandbox”. The platform consists of three main components: a longitudinal data engine, the discovery studio, and the synthetic data engine. Through the use of the longitudinal data engine, professionals from all across the organization can input data and records relating to a patient, and it can be viewed in a chronological timeline, allowing for a more comprehensive overview. The synthetic data engine allows users to use original data sets to create a non-human subject data set with no personally identifiable factors that are still close enough to the original to be used for research purposes. And finally, the discovery studio is essentially a data insights dashboard. This partnership now brings the total number of countries that MDClone operates in to three, including the U.S. and Israel. MDClone’s founder and chief executive officer, Ziv Ofek, spoke in the press release about his excitement to enter the territory and be a part of the modernization of the Canadian healthcare system. “Starting a relationship with The Ottawa Hospital, one of the largest hospitals in Canada, is a dream come true for MDClone,” said Ofek. “We now have the collective opportunity with The Ottawa Hospital to democratize data and give physicians better tools to discover better ways to help thousands of Canadians. The power of leveraging data for better healthcare delivery is truly a global desire and this collaboration is an exciting example in Canada. Partnering with a world-class healthcare organization focused on innovation like The Ottawa Hospital is the perfect starting point to fulfill our shared vision of insights impacting care.” Related Download Sponsor: IBM Digital Reinvention in action: What to do and how to make it happen Register Now Big Data & Analytics, Digital Transformation, Public Sector data analytics, healthcare, MDClone, Ottawa Hospital Nokia restructures tech leadership to eliminate group chief information technology role Hashtag Trending - Kickstarter unionizes, Inbox damage control, Bezos pledges to fight climate change About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Azure NetApp files become HIPAA compliant Maple launches free online screening and consultation solution in response to COVID-19 Landing that dream data scientist position Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada