https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/dec-20-the-90s-are-back-with-macaulay-culkin-and-alfonso-ribeiro-making-tech-headlines/413231
Dec. 20 – The '90s are back with Macaulay Culkin and Alfonso Ribeiro making tech headlines | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Dec. 20 – The ‘90s are back with Macaulay Culkin and Alfonso Ribeiro making tech headlines Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: December 20th, 2018 The ‘90s are cool again. That’s right, trending in today’s headlines are Macaulay Culkin, Alfonso Ribeiro, and your old school photos are being given new life. Trending on Google, is the new commercial for Google Assistant. It reimagines the classic Christmas movie from 1990, Home Alone. Macaulay Culkin takes up his role as Kevin, only he’s now a fully grown adult and he has the help of Google Home to set up his booby traps. He’s a clip: Fresh Prince actor sues Fortnite for use of ‘iconic’ Carlton dance – Alfonso Ribeiro wants to stop the makers of Fortnite and NBA 2K from using the dance he first performed on the 1990s sitcom from technology Trending on Reddit, Alfonso Ribeiro is suing Fortnite and NBA 2K for stealing his “Carleton dance.” The actor says that Epic Games, the publisher of those hit video game titles, used his dance without permission or credit. Ribeiro made the dance popular by performing it on The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air, a ‘90s hit sitcom. He says he’s currently in the process of copyrighting the dance. Fortnite has even directly monetized the dance, charging players who want to download it so their characters can swing around in a goofy manner. If you’ve never seen the dance, trust me, there’s no mistaking it. Trending on Product Hunt, a perfect solution if you want to give those old school photos new life. If you’re like me, your school pictures from the ‘90s are full of crazy backgrounds like neon lights and space nebulae. Well now a website, remove.bg, will remove the background from any photo you upload in five seconds. Just upload your photo and you’ll see the subject of the photo transposed against a transparent background. Careers Google Home, hashtag trending, podcasts Corel acquires Mac virtualization software Parallels Why we can't ignore the 'Save PIAC' campaign About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada