https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/blackberry-expanding-autonomous-vehicle-partnership-with-lg/419499
Blackberry expanding autonomous vehicle partnership with LG | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Blackberry's CEO, John Chen. File photo. Artificial Intelligence Digital Transformation Wireless & IoT Blackberry expanding autonomous vehicle partnership with LG Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: June 26th, 2019 In an effort to speed up the deployment of connected and autonomous vehicle technology for automotive OEMs and suppliers, Blackberry Ltd. has announced that it’s expanding its partnership with LG Electronics Inc. “BlackBerry QNX has been our long-term, reliable partner for more than a decade, providing high performance, secure and trusted mission-critical software solutions that have helped LG delivered millions of high-quality systems to the world’s automakers,” said Hwang Won-yong, the head of audio, video, navigation, and cluster engineering for LG’s Vehicle Component Solutions Company. “We are pleased to further expand and strengthen our partnership with BlackBerry QNX, using its innovative solutions in the next generation of connected and autonomous vehicle technologies including the future of in-vehicle infotainment systems.” Under the expanded agreement, LG will be leveraging software and services from Blackberry QNX to aid in the development of the next generation of digital consolidated cockpits. They will reportedly include infotainment systems, digital instrument clusters, and telematics systems. The QNX software being provided to LG will include QNX Software Development Platform (SDP 7.0), QNX OS for Safety, QNX Hypervisor, QNX acoustics middleware, QNX SDK for apps and media, as well as professional engineering services for system-level integration, performance optimization, and solution validation. The agreement was announced the same day of Blackberry’s FY’20 Q1 earnings analyst call, which among other things, detailed Blackberry’s year-over-year non-GAAP revenue growth for IoT that’s expected to sit somewhere between 12 per cent and 16 per cent. John Chen, executive chairman and chief executive officer for Blackberry, said during the call that customers can expect the release of over 30 new secure communication products and services this year. Artificial Intelligence, Digital Transformation, Wireless & IoT autonomous vehicles, BlackBerry, BlackBerry QNX, IoT, LG How to avoid the two biggest security mistakes in DevOps Massive telecommunication data breach linked to Chinese hackers, says Israeli security firm About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content BlackBerry releases updates to SecuSUITE for Government and AtHoc Crisis Communication BlackBerry report says data losses increasing due to cloud misconfiguration Paranoid privacy tool can jam your smart speaker’s microphone GSMA applies new restrictions as more companies depart MWC due to coronavirus outbreak Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada