https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-google-ceo-calls-for-ai-regulation-gotta-hand-it-to-amazon-adult-site-leaks-data/426289
Hashtag Trending - Google CEO calls for AI regulation; gotta hand it to Amazon; adult site leaks data | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Google CEO calls for AI regulation; gotta hand it to Amazon; adult site leaks data IT World Canada Staff @itworldca Published: January 21st, 2020 The CEO of Google calling for more AI regulation, Amazon wants customers to be able to pay with their hands, and thousands of cam girls have their data exposed. The AI market is growing rapidly, but how are we going to ensure it’s managed and scaled responsibly by the organizations that depend on it? Google’s CEO, Sundar Pichai, doesn’t have the answer, but his recent quote about the need for AI regulation is trending on LinkedIn. Pichai, who wrote an opinion piece in the Financial Times on the topic while also delivering a speech on the topic in Brussels, said that there is no question that artificial intelligence needs to be regulated. The Eu and US are already starting to develop regulatory proposals, he says, but “market forces” he adds, shouldn’t be what ultimately decides how AI is used. Google has its own AI principles to help guide this work, but Pichai said there’s still a lot to be done and that “principles that remain on paper are meaningless.” Numerous sci-fi books and movies have broached the idea of implanted chips in humans allowing them to perform such actions as paying for an item by simply swiping their hand across a scanner. Now Amazon is suggesting making such a concept a reality. Trending on LinkedIn. Is an article from the Wall Street Journal saying that AWS is already setting up kiosks in its brick and mortar stores to allow customers to connect their credit card information to their palm print and scan their hand to complete purchases? And lastly, a data breach of an adult entertainment network has led to the exposure of sensitive information belonging to over 4,000 cam models. The leaked data totalled over 20 GB and was found on an Amazon server in Virginia. The information exposed included names, addresses, emergency contacts, and even scans of passports and drivers licenses. The story has quickly caught fire on Reddit. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts City of Toronto updates its open data portal, adds new datasets New report says Windows' EFS encryption could be leveraged by ransomware Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada