https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/mdr-firm-esentire-raises-47-million-plans-to-open-new-hq-in-waterloo/415664
MDR firm eSentire raises $47 million, plans to open new HQ in Waterloo | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Privacy & Security MDR firm eSentire raises $47 million, plans to open new HQ in Waterloo Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: March 5th, 2019 Cybersecurity firm eSentire is making moves. The Cambridge, Ont.-based company announced $47 million USD in funding led by global private equity firm Warburg Pincus and minority investors Georgian Partners and Edison Partners. In addition to innovating its managed detection and response (MDR) portfolio and developing proprietary AI for threat hunting and advanced automation, a spokesperson for eSentire confirmed that some of that money will go towards the opening of a new 65,000 square-foot global headquarters in Waterloo. The new office – which was occupied by BlackBerry years ago – is double the current 33,000 square-foot space eSentire occupies in Cambridge, and will also include a Security Operations Centre that the company says will help attract new staff to help develop AI and machine learning technology. It will also serve as a catalyst for expansion into Europe, according to James Yersh, chief administrative officer for eSentire. “It’s an exciting time to be in the cybersecurity field, and it’s particularly exciting to be located in a region of Canada that is really embracing and supporting technological innovation,” he said in a statement. “We’ve got an innovative solution that companies need, and we have a great opportunity to capitalize on this as we continue to evolve our solution to meet global cybersecurity needs.” But the news doesn’t stop there. eSentire also announced the launch of a new SaaS application called esInsider, a cloud-based AI engine – available for on-premises and hybrid cloud environments – that sniffs out sophisticated threats which go unnoticed in network noise. “Traditional security approaches have long struggled with detecting insider and ongoing threat campaigns as they overemphasize prevention of initial access,” said Ashley Fidler, chief product officer for eSentire. “They also often process events and alerts as discrete incidents, leaving threats to go unnoticed for long periods of time. By applying our AI engine to surface unavoidable adversary behaviors, we can detect hidden threats that exist in networks and provide our security experts with the information needed to disrupt these sophisticated threats before they impact our customers’ businesses.” Lastly, eSentire is also partnering with Chronicle, a new Alphabet company, focused entirely on enterprise cyber security announced this week at RSA conference in San Francisco. The partnership will see eSentire lend its managed services to Chronicle’s Backstory platform, a new global security telemetry platform designed to help enterprise customers analyze the massive amounts of security telemetry they generate every year. Careers, Privacy & Security eSentire, RSA Conference, Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Waterloo Hit the reset button on Sidewalk Toronto or face legal action, civil liberties association tells government Hashtag Trending - Huawei CFO to sue Canada; Google bans political ads; Apple greenlights aftermarket iPhone batteries About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content RSA Conference: More countries willing to steal economic secrets RSA Conference: Infosec pros ‘don’t share any wins’ and it makes them look like ‘losers’ says RSA president RSA Conference: Democratize security, says Cisco official, and McAfee urges work on quantum-resistant solutions BlackBerry, Microsoft and other heavy hitters drop product announcements at RSA Conference Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada