https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-gmail-blocks-more-spam-facebook-lets-you-retract-messages-google-detects-compromised-accounts/414847
HashTag Trending – Gmail blocks more spam; Facebook lets you retract messages; Google detects compromised accounts | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure HashTag Trending – Gmail blocks more spam; Facebook lets you retract messages; Google detects compromised accounts Tom Li @itworldca Published: February 7th, 2019 This podcast is brought to you by Amazon Web Services. Companies build more of their IT infrastructure on AWS than the next four cloud providers combined. Visit aws.amazon.com to learn how AWS can help you modernize your IT. Gmail filters out more spam; retract your Facebook messages; new Chrome extension lets you know if your account’s been hacked. Gmail is the latest Google product to receive an AI treatment. Trending on Reddit, Gmail now filters out an extra 100 million spam messages every day. This accomplishment came after Google integrated its TensorFlow machine learning framework into the email suite. Even without TensorFlow, Gmail’s existing filtration system already blocks 99.9 per cent of all spam, but with over a billion users, hitting that elusive 100 per cent is impossible without more advanced AI tools. As technology continues to be refined, expect more personalized spam filters and criteria. Like me, like you, and like everyone else, we’ve all experienced the regret of sending unintended messages. With Facebook’s new “unsend” feature, however, we can now retract our regretful words for up to 10 minutes. To delete a message, hold down on the text bubble and select “remove for everyone”. While the content will be hidden, all participants in the chat will be notified that a message has been deleted. This new feature is now live on Android and iOS. Having your account credentials stolen without your knowledge can be a nightmare, which is why Google released a new Chrome extension that detects stolen account details. Trending on Google. the new extension, called Password Checkup, matches the credentials you type in against a database of 4 billion stolen accounts. Once it detects a match, it will prompt you to change your password immediately. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Please also subscribe to us on Apple Podcasts and Google Podcasts. I’m your host Tom Li. Thanks for listening! Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure hashtag, hashtag trending, podcasts City of Markham and Bell partner for smart city initiative Citizen Lab rights researchers targeted in suspicious meetings About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada