https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/u-s-trade-war-hits-consumers-with-higher-electronics-pricing/421507
U.S. trade war hits consumers with higher electronics pricing | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Shutterstock.com Ecommerce U.S. trade war hits consumers with higher electronics pricing Tom Li @itworldca Published: September 4th, 2019 A 15 per cent tariff on Chinese goods came into effect on Sunday, Sept. 1st. As part of the ongoing trade war between the U.S. and China, the new tariff could significantly drive up the cost of electronics for consumers. While TVs, phones, and audio gear are just a subset of the long list of affected items, they have a wide-reaching effect. The tariff not only affects Chinese brands, but many electronics manufactured in China. This means that many electronics companies including Apple, TCL, and others with productions in China would feel the blunt end. Apple’s wireless Air Pods are the company’s major focus. In addition, its Beats wireless headphones is a major subsidiary. Many other Chinese companies sell their products to distributors like Walmart and BestBuy. Other affected items include monitors, smartwatches, printers, and many more. Because of Canada’s economic ties with the U.S., drastic pricing increase could affect Canadian customers as well. It won’t be until the holiday seasons before the tariff’s effect fully manifests. Businesses are likely to delegate the cost overhead onto the buyers, although some sellers have said that they’re willing to cut margins to avoid affecting consumer pricing. Thus far, the U.S. has applied heavy taxes on over $300 billion worth of Chinese goods. China has retaliated in kind, placing 25 per cent tariffs on U.S. imports like Soy. The initial import tax rate was set at 10 per cent in November 2018. It was increased to 15 percent on August 20, 2019 by U.S. President Donald Trump. Affected items are listed in the U.S. Federal Register. IT World Canada has reached out to Apple and TCL for comments and will update the article upon a response. Ecommerce Canada, Finance, trade war, United States Microsoft lends OneEleven scaleup community a helping hand Hashtag Trending - Canada’s top startups, messaging app usage explodes, Amazon hotline About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Canadian ICT spending could shrink by 5 per cent in 2020: IDC Canada can learn from U.S. cyber report, says expert Canada has highest wireless value among G7 nations: U.S. study Explore all the changes in Canadian financial services security in a single day Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada