https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-big-brothers-watch-in-uk-youtube-mods-and-ptsd-sidewalk-labs-smart-city-delay/426489
Hashtag Trending – Big brother's watch in UK; YouTube mods and PTSD; Sidewalk Lab's smart city delay | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Big brother’s watch in UK; YouTube mods and PTSD; Sidewalk Lab’s smart city delay Tom Li @itworldca Published: January 27th, 2020 Hashtag Today is about big brother watching over UK citizens, YouTube moderators allegedly being forced into acknowledging PTSD as a health hazard, and the delay of Sidewalk Lab’s smart city in Toronto. Thank you for tuning in to Hashtag Trending, it’s Monday, January 27th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Google, United Kingdom has deployed facial recognition cameras to catch criminals. In a controversial move, the London Metropolitan Police said that it would initially focus on a small, targeted area, but did specify where. With that said, the MET said it would clearly indicate where these cameras are, and officers would inform its citizens via pamphlets. The goal is to monitor serious crime, but civil liberty groups have expressed disapproval towards the new method, calling it an expansion of the surveillance state. Trending on Reddit, YouTube moderators are allegedly being forced into acknowledging PTSD as a work hazard. According to an investigation by The Verge, Accenture, a company YouTube has contracted to monitor its content, has a clear section in a worker document highlighting that the job could lead to PTSD. It directs the employee to report mental health issues to supervisors and provides some wellness resources. While the document indicated that signing the document is voluntary, The Verge said that two current employees said that they’d be fired if they didn’t. Following their statement, The Verge reached out to law employment experts, who told them that the requirement to disclose mental health to their employers could be viewed as illegal. Trending on Reddit, Waterfront Toronto has delayed the deadline for deciding the fate of Quayside smart city by Sidewalk Labs. The new deadline is now May 20, nearly a month from the original March 31st deadline. According to the directors, the deadline was extended to gather more opinions from the public. Toronto’s Quayside smart city project has been under fire for potential privacy issues due to the massive amount of data it will collect. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Microsoft CEO says privacy is a human right, and businesses should treat it as such Cyber Security Today - Show you're in control on Data Privacy Day About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada