https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/how-to-control-your-privacy-for-google-services/416887
How to control your privacy for Google services | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image from GettyImages.ca Emerging Tech Privacy & Security How to control your privacy for Google services Tom Li @itworldca Published: April 10th, 2019 How to see what Google knows about you It should be no surprise that Google scrapes all sorts of information about you. The collected information is then used to produce targeted advertisements and improve services. Despite our vigilant efforts to safeguard our privacy on the web, it’s becoming harder and harder to avoid the grasp of such a wide-spread service. Luckily, thanks to a bunch of new privacy rules and Google’s own efforts to paint itself as transparent, everyone can see an aggregated data sheet of exactly what Google knows about their personal lives through Google Takeout menu. Google Takeout provides an uncomplicated view of every service it offers. All you have to do is check off the services you want to view and click on the “download” button at the bottom. I recommend unticking Google Drive, Google Photos, and Gmail as you can already see their content through their respective interfaces. While you may expect your archive to include your browsing history, you may be surprised at how Google keeps a detailed account of your receipts, travel information, and your online purchases made outside of Google Shopping. These are all scraped from your receipts sent to your Gmail account; ever notice how your itinerary is automatically added to your Google Calendar? To Google, the juiciest pieces of info reside in the “My Activity” section. This is the takeout menu everyone should check. My Activity includes usage information in common Google apps like Google Maps, Google Assistant, and Gmail. Fine-grained details such as your Gmail search history, Google Maps usage history, and even your previous Google Voice commands can all be found in here. Try playing back a few recorded “OK Google” commands and see your phone light up. How to control your privacy on Google Most of us know how to delete our browsing histories, but that’s just a small fraction of your Google profile. To delete the intricate information buried in Google’s database, you’ll need to delete them from the My Activities page. Delete your activity history From a Google Chrome browser logged into the account you want to manage, enter “myactivity.google.com” into the search bar. In the left-hand column, select, “Delete activity by”. In the new window that appears, expand the Delete by Date dropdown menu and select the time frame you’d like to delete. To delete everything, select “All time”. You can also specify which service you’d like to delete from. After that, hit “Delete” and you’re done. It may take a few minutes for all the changes to apply. Turn off activity tracking Now that’s done, click the back button to return to the main menu. In the left-hand column, select “Activity controls”. Scroll through all the options and toggle off all activities that you don’t wish Google to track. Keep in mind that some Google features may not work if certain options are disabled. For example, your YouTube video recommendations may not be as relevant if you disable YouTube Watch History. Most of the options have clear explanations as to what they do. Check other Google activities Now, return to the main menu again. In the left-hand column, select “Other Google activity”. Here is where you can delete all the information outside of the main “My Activity” section. The options here are abundant, giving you control on services ranging from YouTube comments to shared research data. Do comb through these carefully as the changes you make here are irreversible. After all that’s done, all the information you want gone should be purged from your sight. Whether it’s actually deleted from Google’s database will forever remain a mystery. Always be vigilant On more than one occasion, people were surprised by what’s contained within their Google Takeout. That’s no surprise, however, as few of us have the time and energy to scrutinize the service terms and agreements we blindly agree to. And while Google comprises a major part of many people’s work days, another danger is social media. It’s incredible what you can compile about a person through what they willingly share on Facebook, Twitter, and the like. Always think twice about what you’re sharing and saying; it could come back to haunt you later. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Privacy & Security Client Security, Google, privacy, Tutorial Cyber Security Today: Watch for updates for a car app, Windows and more Canada can court Big Tech while creating homegrown success stories About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content COVID-19: Toronto mayor sparks debate on possible use of cellphone data for infection detection Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone During a crisis, use and disclosure of personal information may be extended, ‘can be very broad’ says regulator Google bolsters G Suite Hangouts with enterprise features amidst coronavirus outbreak Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada