https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/netapp-unveils-its-keystone/423849
NetApp unveils its Keystone | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. NetApp CEO George Kurian. Photo by Lynn Greiner. Cloud Infrastructure Managed Services & Outsourcing NetApp unveils its Keystone Lynn Greiner @lynngr Published: November 13th, 2019 LAS VEGAS – The keystone of an arch is the stone at the top that holds everything together, and that’s what NetApp is aiming for with its Keystone program. Unveiled at the company’s annual user conference, Insight, Keystone offers a simplified way to achieve the agility of cloud infrastructure, either on premises or through any major cloud provider or providers. Chief executive officer George Kurian told the 4,500 attendees that the group of programs, services, and offerings lets NetApp deliver a consistent experience across public cloud and data centre, building on NetApp’s data fabric. “NetApp Keystone enables you to simplify the business of hybrid cloud data services,” he said. “It provides flexible cloud consumption models that make it easy to buy, easy to consume, and easy to operate NetApp capability, whether it’s on premises or in the public cloud, and you get to pay for it as a metered utility with zero upfront commitment, as a subscription, or with a capital purchase.” Keystone Subscription Services gives customers the public cloud experience on premises. To subscribe, they simply pick the performance tier (high performance, standard, or value), choose file, block, or object data services, and decide whether they want to manage the storage themselves or have NetApp do so. Subscriptions are paid monthly, quarterly, or yearly, with a one-year commitment, for committed capacity, and include the ability to burst on demand. “We share the risk with you,” he said. “We retain the title to the assets that you deploy in your data centre, we allow you to burst, and we give you the option to deploy in your co-located data centre and managed environments.” The third part of NetApp Keystone, Kurian said, is for customers who still want to buy capital infrastructure. It simplifies the ordering system and provides a digital product selector. Product support offering have also been enhanced, with predictable pricing. “NetApp Keystone marks the next major evolution of the data fabric,” he said. “For five years we have led the market in innovating in data services for hybrid IT. Today we are taking the next step forward providing you with a simplified integrated cloud-like customer experience that is deployable anywhere, in the cloud or in your data centre.” While hybrid multicloud was the magic phrase this year, NetApp didn’t neglect its legacy products, announcing a new version of ONTAP as well as new hardware, including the AFF All SAN array featuring symmetric active-active controllers for instant failover that got spontaneous applause from Kurian’s keynote audience. Karen López, data evangelist at Infoadvisors, found the announcements interesting, but felt they were lacking in detail. “Most of the information I got was more about their messaging and their successes from last year and in previous years,” she said. “So that tells me they are still working on this transition from being a hardware company to being a data services company, and that’s not an easy thing to do.” “I wasn’t expecting them to say they’re fully transitioned,” she went on. “I didn’t get to see enough of the technical side of what they’re announcing to form an opinion. It sounds like a great strategy. There are other things I’d like to see them doing – I’d like every company to be doing this – I wanted to hear more about, if they’re going to be a data services company, how are they addressing the big data problems right now: privacy and security. I’m sure they’re doing things around security, but I expected to hear more.” Cloud, Infrastructure, Managed Services & Outsourcing NetApp, postmedia Toronto startup wants to cut the time it takes for Canadian startups to scale in half Hashtag Trending - Disney server overload; Facebook secretly turning on cameras; best companies ranked About Lynn Greiner Lynn Greiner has been interpreting tech for businesses for over 20 years and has worked in the industry as well as writing about it, giving her a unique perspective into the issues companies face. She has both IT credentials and a business degree. Follow Follow @lynngr on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada