https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/weak-and-re-used-passwords-still-common-says-vendor-report/428953
Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by Designer491 via GettyImages.ca Privacy & Security Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: March 26th, 2020 Many employees of Fortune 1,000 companies are still using and re-using weak and insecure passwords if an analysis of stolen data by a security vendor is accurate. In a report issued this week, account takeover prevention provider SpyCloud said an analysis of data sold by criminals suggests that, on average, 76 per cent of business employees may be reusing passwords on multiple sites. Perhaps to no infosec pro’s surprise, some weak passwords in the dataset studied were the most common: The most popular password was 123456, which appeared 14,252 times. Passwords that appear to be names (maggie, bailey, michael) accounted for 32 of the top 100 passwords, appearing over 24 thousand times. Strings of digits (123456789) and easy-to-type combinations of letters and numbers (abc123, qwerty) accounted for another 19 of the top passwords. The report also suggests security isn’t very good at a lot of companies: Of the more than 412 million breach assets looked at (an asset is a name or email address for example), 4 million were plaintext passwords. Related: Longer passwords are better, so is salt In an interview, Julia Kisielius, senior product manager at SpyCloud ducked when asked if IT is doing something wrong. “Password security is a shared responsibility,” she said. “Users are in some way responsible for creating strong passwords, while security professionals need to acknowledge human nature and check passwords to ensure they aren’t weak.” The analysis has some caveats: The data is part of the 100 billion breach assets that have been “recovered” over the years by SpyCloud in various ways from criminals on the dark web. In Kiseilus’s words, the company tries to “social engineer them out of their data.” From that total researchers winnowed it down to about 76.1 million breach records tied to a single user from 32,000 data breaches that could be linked to Fortune 1000 companies through email addresses (for example, johnsmith@company.com). So Gmail addresses, for example, weren’t counted for this analysis. Within that 76.1 million records were 23.1 million email addresses and plaintext password pairs. The email addresses weren’t necessarily real persons’ names. John Smith, for example, could be an alias. The entire dataset has been compiled by SpyCloud over years, so it captures some employees who have moved on to other companies. That also means some people could have changed their passwords by now to ones that are safer. Still, criminals keep using that information, and people keep using those passwords, or variations of them, Kisielius said. It’s also common that many people make only small changes to passwords, either because they think that makes it a new password or to pass company [password] complexity requirements. Criminals know that and count on it, she said. Despite the caveats, SpyCloud hopes the analysis “provides a window into the scale of the account takeover risks facing large enterprises and the importance of monitoring employee credentials for weak and reused passwords.” You can get the report here (registration required). Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security passwords, postmedia, security strategies Canadian ICT spending could shrink by 5 per cent in 2020: IDC Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Think multi-factor authentication can’t be hacked? Think again Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada