https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/microsoft-invests-1-billion-in-elon-musks-openai/420152
Microsoft invests $1 billion in Elon Musk's OpenAI | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Sam Altman, CEO of OpenAI (left), and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella. Photo from press release. Artificial Intelligence Microsoft invests $1 billion in Elon Musk’s OpenAI Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: July 22nd, 2019 Elon Musk’s OpenAI got a major financial boost after announcing that Microsoft Corp. is investing $1 billion USD to fund the development of artificial general intelligence (AGI) for the purposes of expanding Azure’s capabilities in large-scale AI systems. AGI systems are said to be able to solve problems that are far beyond the capacity of current AI services. “Modern AI systems work well for the specific problem on which they’ve been trained, but getting AI systems to help address some of the hardest problems facing the world today will require generalization and deep mastery of multiple AI technologies,” read a press release from the two companies. “OpenAI and Microsoft’s vision is for artificial general intelligence to work with people to help solve currently intractable multidisciplinary problems, including global challenges such as climate change, more personalized healthcare and education.” Beyond the collaboration aspect of this partnership, Azure will now be the sole cloud provider for OpenAI, and OpenAI will now be licensing some of its previous and future developments with Microsoft as its preferred commercialization partner. OpenAI was co-founded by Musk, Greg Brockman, Ilya Sutskever, and Sam Altman, who now serves as the company’s chief executive officer. Artificial Intelligence Elon Musk, Microsoft, OpenAI Microsoft's cloud services strategy paying off, according to Q4 earnings Equifax could pay up to $700 million in proposed U.S. settlement for data breach About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Hiring neurodiverse people has given us an edge, says AirGate CEO Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada