https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-facebooks-moderator-backlash-foldable-smartphone-comparison-a-1tb-microsd-card/415412
Hashtag Trending – Facebook's moderator backlash; foldable smartphone comparison; a 1TB microSD card | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Facebook’s moderator backlash; foldable smartphone comparison; a 1TB microSD card Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: February 26th, 2019 Facebook contractors are speaking out about poor treatment; foldable phones are barely announced but they’re already being compared on Youtube; and you won’t believe the new maximum size of a microSD storage card. Trending on Google, Facebook employees are raising concerns over the treatment of moderators working on contract. Facebook has been using contractors to moderate content posted to the social networking platform and The Verge has a story about one of those workplaces. Cognizant is based in Phoenix, paying moderators an average of less than $29,000 per year. How are the workplace conditions? Here’s one quote from the article: “It is an environment where workers cope by telling dark jokes about committing suicide, then smoke weed during breaks to numb their emotions. It’s a place where employees can be fired for making just a few errors a week — and where those who remain live in fear of the former colleagues who return seeking vengeance. Trending on Youtube, Booredatwork.com has a comparison of the Huawei Mate X versus the Samsung Galaxy Fold. Samsung was the first to unveil its folding smartphone, and Huawei followed quickly at Mobile World Congress. They are definitely different approaches to this concept. The Samsung folds out like a book. The Huawei folds out from the back, so you get screens on both sides when folded up. 1TB microSD cards are now a thing from technology Trending on Reddit, 1 terabyte micro SD cards are now available on the market. Two different storage firms announced them at Mobile World Congress, with Micron and SanDisk both saying they’ll start shipping this Spring. Remember a few years ago when you bought a desktop hard drive that was 1 TB in size? Now all that space somehow fits into a piece of plastic that’s about as thick as a fingernail. Getting one will cost you though, with SanDisk saying the release price will be $450 USD. Maybe you’ll get by with a mere 512 GB card, which is priced at $200. This past weekend, Hashtag Trending was a finalist in the technology category for the Canadian Podcasting Awards. I just wanted to note that the winner for the category was Accenture’s The AI Effect, which I personally enjoyed listening too. Congratulations to them. Careers Facebook, hashtag trending, MWC 2019, podcasts, storage The best foldable phones at MWC 2019: Samsung Galaxy Fold, Huawei Mate X, LG Dual Screen Stolen unencrypted NWT laptop held sensitive health information: News report About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada