https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/lenovos-bendy-thinkpad-x1-fold-is-us2500-coming-mid-2020/426044
Lenovo's bendy ThinkPad X1 Fold is US$2,500, coming mid-2020 | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Infrastructure Lenovo’s bendy ThinkPad X1 Fold is US$2,500, coming mid-2020 Tom Li @itworldca Published: January 14th, 2020 If the number of foldable laptops at CES were any indication, we’ll be entering a Star Trek reality in no time. Designed for travelling professionals, Lenovo’s ThinkPads are known for their resilience in harsh working conditions. The Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Fold is its latest take on bringing a new form factor to the professional crowd. Related: Details mum as Lenovo unveils the foldable ThinkPad X1 laptop To uphold its rugged reputation, Lenovo outlined several design considerations that enforced the X1 Fold’s toughness in its press release. Features include a multi-link torque hinge, lightweight carbon fibre reinforced frame plate, and “extensive durability testing” for the OLED display. If its name wasn’t obvious enough, the 2K pOLED, 13.3-inch, LG-made display folds in half for easy transport. Because the hinge stays sturdy in between every position, the user can hold it as a book or prop it up vertically. “How many people you know that have a smartphone, a tablet, and a PC?” asked Matt Zielinsk, president of Lenovo North America. “And so there’s our user experience research, which shows that there’s a good subset of users like that, that are looking for an alternative experience. And so I think that’s the genesis of foldable devices.” Aside from a small subset of users, most people have abandoned the physical keyboard on smartphones. On the laptop, however, a physical keyboard is still deeply valued. The X1 Fold has a thin Bluetooth keyboard complete with a touchpad. When not in use, the keyboard wedges in between the folded displays and charges wirelessly. In addition, the display supports an active stylus that also magnetically attaches to the chassis. Lenovo is still dodgy on specifications, which was expected given that it’s still a product under development. At CES, it said that it’s using an unannounced Intel processor. If it’s an unannounced part, then it’s likely something beyond Intel’s Ice Lake since the entire family had been completed. That leaves only Tiger Lake, Ice Lake’s successor, or Lakefield, an Intel processor that features a stacked chip design. The latter has more potential, though, as the press release wrote that it’s an “Intel Core Processors with Intel Hybrid Technology”. The ThinkPad X1 fold will initially ship with a regular copy of Windows 10 but will be updated to the fold-optimized Windows 10X at a later date. It will also ship with optional 5G connectivity. The Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Fold is expected to go on sale in mid-2020 for US$2,500. Its high cost puts it in the lap of early adopters with deep pockets. Lenovo will also sell a separate stand that props up the device at an angle. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Infrastructure foldable computers, Laptop, Lenovo, Notebook, ThinkPad Social media reacts to Windows 7 end of life Hashtag Trending - Goodbye Windows 7, Uber’s Ontario fight, Microsoft CEO slams backdoors About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Apple’s new MacBook Air and iPad Pro bring surprsing upgrades Intel processor constraint to continue in 2020, says HPE Dell’s foldable devices at CES 2020: Duet, Ori, and UFO Lenovo announces first 5G-enabled laptop Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada