https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/itac-appoints-experienced-executive-angela-mondou-as-permanent-president-and-ceo/417376
ITAC appoints experienced executive Angela Mondou as permanent president and CEO | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Leadership ITAC appoints experienced executive Angela Mondou as permanent president and CEO Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: April 29th, 2019 Tech industry lobby group Information Technology Association of Canada (ITAC) has appointed a permanent new president and CEO in Angela Mondou. In a newsletter update to members sent out on Friday, ITAC says Mondou is seeking feedback from members in the coming months. ITAC wants feedback on which of its activities and programming are adding value for members. Since Robert Watson stepped down from the role of president and CEO in November, Denise Shortt served as interim CEO. She continues on with ITAC in her role as vice-president of industry development, diversity, and inclusion. Angela Mondou was announced as ITAC’s new president and CEO April 15. “I am thrilled and honored to be taking on the helm of ITAC at such a pivotal time for Canada and for our sector,” Angela Mondou, president and CEO, ITAC said in a statement. “The decisions we, as a nation, make today will affect our economy and society for generations. Canada’s IT ecosystem is integral to Canada’s economic future. I look forward to representing ITAC’s significant and diverse Tech members, executive leaders and ITAC team, as we work to advance the priorities of our sector and, importantly, our country.” A press release introducing Mondou says the new leader started her role April 15. She has more than 25 years of Canadian experience in the technology sector. Mondou was previously a CEO in the health tech sector and the not-for-profit sector, as president of Canada Company. She spent 10 years in the military and held senior leadership roles at BlackBerry and Nortel Networks. “The ITAC National Board of Directors is extremely impressed with Angela’s knowledge and ideas about the advancement of Canada’s ICT industry in Canada, as well as the increasing role ITAC plays in fostering a growing, innovative tech sector in Canada,” said national ITAC Board Chair Kevin Peesker, and president of Microsoft Canada in a press release. “She is a tech visionary with a proven track record of execution and we are pleased to have Angela help drive the Association forward, ensuring we remain the trusted, innovative leader that our members rely on to advocate for a more robust and innovative digital economy.” Mondou is also a recipient of the United Nations Peacekeeping medal, as the result of a 2005 Year of the Veteran campaign, in which she represented Canada’s peacekeepers. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership itac IBM to open quantum computation center in New York #Kids2030 initiative to teach children how to use AI and the ethics behind it About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content ITAC launches new corporate brand, Technation Nominate a worthy CanadianCIO of the Year – Deadline fast approaching ITAC puts forth suggestions for ICT industry in 2019 federal budget ITAC to tackle cyber security skills shortage through tools website Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada