https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/your-devices-are-germ-magnets-heres-how-to-keep-them-clean/428694
How to keep your devices clean | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Opinion Your devices are germ magnets – here’s how to keep them clean Tom Li @itworldca Published: March 20th, 2020 Given our dependency on our electronics, it’s no surprise that they’re a great harbour for grime, germs and viruses. During the COVID-19 pandemic, it’s important to keep household surfaces and electronics clean. Smartphones and tablets By far our most frequently accessed tool, smartphones get dirty fast. So dirty, in fact, that a smartphone screen of an average highschooler was found to be 10 times filthier than a toilet seat. While a quick wipe on the jeans makes grime less visible, bacteria and other microbes are still everpresent. It’s more important than ever to start a deeper sanitization routine. First, find a safe screen cleaner that’s certified to purge microbes. There isn’t much to it. Spray a small amount of the fluid onto a clean microfibre cloth and gently wipe down the display. Remember to never spray onto the display directly since the liquid could breach the seams of non-waterproof phones. While you’re at it, give the back of the phone a quick wipe, too, and wash your phone case in the sink with mild soap and water if it’s washable. Use a clean microfibre cloth and wipe away. Related: How to clean a keyboard If you can’t find an alcohol-based screen cleaner, you can use the alcohol wipes in your first-aid kit. Both Samsung and Apple devices can be safely disinfected using alcohol-based wipes that contain at least 70 per cent alcohol. Do not use any bleach-based solution, though. It’s also a good idea to pack a travel-sized bottle of cleaner or a few wipes in your backpack. More importantly, wash the microfibre cloth frequently. Diligent wiping is good enough for most people, but those who want the nuclear approach can look to ultraviolet light. Hospitals sometimes use UV light (in conjunction with other sterilization measures) to disinfect their medical equipment. If you want your phone as clean as a doctor’s, then PhoneSoap is your best bet. It blasts your phone screen with a dose of UV light in a compact enclosure. It’s equally important to remember that all the nasty stuff on your phone came from your hands. The best defence against coronavirus is to thoroughly wash your hands with soap and warm water for at least 20 seconds. Keep them away from your face, too. Alcohol wipes from first-aid kits work great too. But experts are divided when it comes to how often phones need to be cleaned, if at all. Not only do certain types of cleaning agents degrade smartphone screens, but some experts believe that displays need no more than a gentle wipe using a microfibre cloth and warm water. Keyboards and mice Your PC peripherals are also fantastic spawning grounds for bacteria. Fortunately, they’re very easy to clean thanks to their plastic and metal exterior. With PC mice, wiping them with rubbing alcohol and a microfibre cloth would do the trick; the same goes for keyboards with difficult-to-remove keys. It’s a good idea to let the keycaps soak a bit in warm soapy water before you scrub them. For a more thorough routine, you should pull off the keycaps using a key puller and wash them in warm soapy water. As you’re waiting for the keycaps to dry, use a soft brush or a can of compressed air to remove loose particles on the keyboard’s exposed base plate. Finally, use a cotton swab to scrub away the stuck-on grime. Because the keycaps need to dry before being put pack, you may not be able to use your keyboard for a little while. For pictorial instructions, follow our keyboard cleaning guide. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace, Opinion coronavirus, COVID-19, peripheral devices, peripherals, postmedia, smartphones Telus to donate $10 million to address public healthcare crisis Why aren't women in cybersecurity? Because sometimes they get groped at work About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Insulating your business from COVID-19 impacts TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada