https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/vulnerabilities-found-in-citrix-and-pulse-secure-products/425929
Vulnerabilities found in Citrix and Pulse Secure products | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Vulnerabilities found in Citrix and Pulse Secure products Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: January 13th, 2020 Enterprise infosec teams are being warned to take action on serious vulnerabilities in products from Citrix and VPN manufacturer Pulse Secure. First, about Citrix: According to The Hacker News, on Saturday multiple groups publicly released weaponized proof-of-concept exploit code for remote code execution vulnerabilities disclosed Dec. 17 in Citrix’s application delivery controller and Gateway products. These bugs could be leveraged to take full control over potential enterprise targets. The company said a vulnerability was found in Citrix Application Delivery Controller (ADC), formerly known as NetScaler ADC, and Citrix Gateway, formerly known as NetScaler Gateway. The vulnerability, called CVE-2019-19781, affects all supported product versions and all supported platforms including Citrix ADC and Citrix Gateway version 13.0 all supported builds; Citrix ADC and NetScaler Gateway version 12.1 all supported builds; Citrix ADC and NetScaler Gateway version 12.0 all supported builds; Citrix ADC and NetScaler Gateway version 11.1 all supported builds, and Citrix NetScaler ADC and NetScaler Gateway version 10.5 all supported builds. There is no patch yet for this bug. Instead, infosec pros have to apply these mitigations until new firmware is released for various versions starting January 20. Threat intelligence firm Bad Packets said that as of Saturday its scans found a total of 25,121 unique IPv4 hosts worldwide vulnerable to CVE-2019-19781. Of these, some 9,880 were in the U.S. and 682 were in Canada. Meanwhile, on Friday the U.S. Department of Homeland Security warned that unpatched Pulse Secure VPN servers “continue to be an attractive target for malicious actors” although the company has been telling customers to install a patch for the past eight months. The patch fixes a code execution (RCE) vulnerability known as CVE-2019-11510. If exploited a remote, unauthenticated attacker may be able to compromise a vulnerable VPN server. The DHS notice said an attacker may be able to gain access to all active users and their plain-text credentials. It may also be possible for the attacker to execute arbitrary commands on each VPN client as it successfully connects to the VPN server. Affected versions include Pulse Connect Secure 9.0R1 – 9.0R3.3; Pulse Connect Secure 8.3R1 – 8.3R7; Pulse Connect Secure 8.2R1 – 8.2R12; Pulse Connect Secure 8.1R1 – 8.1R15; Pulse Policy Secure 9.0R1 – 9.0R3.1; Pulse Policy Secure 5.4R1 – 5.4R7; Pulse Policy Secure 5.3R1 – 5.3R12; Pulse Policy Secure 5.2R1 – 5.2R12; and Pulse Policy Secure 5.1R1 – 5.1R15. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Citrix, postmedia, security strategies Banks challenge Canadian post-secondary students to create cyber solutions BlackBerry adds Cylance to QNX, announces partnerships with AWS, Damon, and Renovo About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada