https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-lost-password-locks-out-millions-in-crypto-suicide-prevention-on-instagram-must-improve-says-ceo-new-york-best-place-for-tech/414821
Hashtag Trending – Lost password locks out millions in crypto; Suicide prevention on Instagram must improve, says CEO; New York best place for tech | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Leadership Hashtag Trending – Lost password locks out millions in crypto; Suicide prevention on Instagram must improve, says CEO; New York best place for tech Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: February 6th, 2019 A lost password results in $190 million in cryptocurrency being locked, the head of Instagram says more has to be done to protect users from content promoting suicide, and a new study says New York City is the best place on the planet for technology. About $190 million in cryptocurrency has been locked away and is currently floating in cyberspace after the founder of a currency exchange died, and apparently, took his encrypted access to the money with him. LinkedIn users have flooded the platform, talking about the investors in QuadrigaCX, Canada’s largest crypocurrency exchange, who are unable to access their funds after its founder, Gerald Cotten, died last year. The Guardian reports the platform continued to accept funds after Cotten’s death but was paused by directors on 26 January. Instagram CEO Adam Mosseiri’s comments about the platform’s lack of effort around protecting users from content that promotes suicide is trending on Reddit. The head of Instagram wrote an op-ed recently after a Telegraph investigation revealed several accounts that encouraged young people into harming themselves through images and comments. Mosseiri says Instagram “isn’t there yet” when it comes to protecting users from that type of content, and that “we do not find enough of these images before they’re seen by other people.” And lastly, a lot of chatter on Twitter about a new study that suggests New York City is the best place for technology on planet Earth. The city ranked first in an index measuring 30 global cities, with San Francisco coming in second place, ahead of London in third. New York ranked first because of its venture capital cash and large pool of talent. Toronto ranked 11th, and was the only Canadian city on the list. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Careers, Leadership hashtag trending, podcasts Cyber Security Today: U.S. restaurant chain hacked, attack uses real document, patch open office suites Weak passwords, poor web code among vulnerabilities that help pen testers About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada