https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-uber-quits-quebec-ataris-comeback-showtime-mines-crypto/396992
Hashtag Trending – Uber quits Quebec, Atari's comeback, Showtime mines crypto | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Emerging Tech Hashtag Trending – Uber quits Quebec, Atari’s comeback, Showtime mines crypto Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: September 27th, 2017 Is Showtime getting into the crypto-currency mining business? AMD’s inclusion in a new Atari system is giving it a boost. And au revoir Uber – the firm says it’s leaving Quebec. CBS’s Showtime caught mining crypto-coins in viewers’ web browsers from technology Trending on Reddit, CBS Showtime quietly took over users’ web browsers to do some crypto-currency mining. Showtime.com used JavaScript to spend spare processing power to crunch algorithms for Monero coins. That’s an alternative to Bitcoin. What’s not clear right now is if CBS planted the code itself, or it’s the work of a hacker. Code Hive, the service the supplies the code as an alternative to online ads, confirmed that a personal email address was behind the account, not a CBS email. On Google Trends, processor maker AMD is on top. A leaked roadmap appears to show its plans through to 2019. Coming to the desktop market next year is “Pinnacle Ridge.” This Would be an improvement over the current Summit Ridge architecture. In 2019, a new chip architecture is planned for a chip called “Matisse.” Plus, AMD was announced as a core hardware partner for the Ataribox. This is a new set top box that will combine classic Atari videogames with some sort of custom Linux OS and sell for about $300. A crowdfunding campaign is planned for this Fall. On Twitter, Uber is pulling out of Quebec. The digital cab hailing company says it will close operations in the province by October 14 unless rules are relaxed. The new rules come after a one year pilot project allowing Uber to operate legally comes to an end. Quebec wants Uber to do the same as other taxi companies and provide each of its drivers 35 hours of training. That’s a hike up from the current requirement of 21 hours. Uber’s general manager for Quebec says the rules are the most strict out of any jurisdiction it operates in. Careers, Emerging Tech AMD, hashtag trending, podcasts, Uber Equifax CEO retires in wake of breach Why Justin Trudeau and Alibaba's Jack Ma think the tech industry could use more women About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada