https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/four-keys-to-smashing-success-in-the-cloud/407814
Four keys to smashing success in the cloud | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Infrastructure Privacy & Security Four keys to smashing success in the cloud Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: August 8th, 2018 So you’ve moved to the cloud. Congratulations would be in order, if not for the fact that most organizations are now in the cloud. In your quest to achieve not just success but smashing success in the cloud, there are certain things you should bear in mind at baseline, including: It’s not about the money: While the cost/money angle should always be a factor, cloud should never be largely about money. Cloud, first and foremost, is about delivering capability and customer experience. If you make it all about the dollar, you’re missing the main point of cloud. Never stop learning: If the customer is your focus and the cloud helps you serve them, know that it’s an iterative learning process. It’s the age of disruption — one size never fits all, and your customer’s tastes will change. Say no to customization: Resist the temptation to tailor a cloud service to your organization. Rather than building around a service (and thereby moving away from cloud’s true value proposition), you should seek to build a sturdy relationship with your vendor as they evolve the platform. Own management: Although cloud service providers will take care of certain operational details (server capacity, load balancing, etc.), it’s up to you (your IT group) to manage your own apps and data. Cloud is a hands-on proposition. Register to attend: “Four Keys to Smashing Success in the Cloud” Smashing cloud success calls for better-than-baseline thinking, however. No doubt you have your own set of goals, and have based them at least in part on your observations of how cloud has benefited organizations like yours. You’ve have had some degree of success, but you know your company is only scratching the surface. You know cloud can be a night-and-day difference-maker, and you’re ready to take your cloud journey to that next level. On September 11th from 1:00 to 2:00 pm ET, join ITWC CIO and Chief Content Officer Jim Love as well as TeraGo Cloud Specialist Nabeel Sherif and Product Manager Mohamed Jivraj for “Four Keys to Smashing Success in the Cloud.” In this session, Jim, Nabeel, and Mohamed will take on the following factors — your keys to cloud success — breaking them down one by one: DR and disaster planning: Disaster recovery is many companies’ first cloud experience. What’s the best way to leverage the cloud to create a complete disaster plan? Security: Corporate leaders are looking for assurance critical data and applications are safe and secure. In this session, you will be presented with ways you can assure your bosses. Regulation: Why you need to stay on top of all regulatory developments, including GDPR, data sovereignty issues, and Canada’s new privacy legislation that kicks in November 1st. “Which cloud?”: There are different clouds to suit different customer needs. In what instances would hyperscale be the better choice over private cloud? Jim and [Firstname] will break down the choices. With a clear goal, the best information, and proper planning, smashing cloud success can be achieved. Consider attendance at “Keys to Smashing Success in the Cloud” as your first step in that exciting direction. Register now to attend Cloud, Infrastructure, Privacy & Security disaster recovery, TeraGo New 'heavy lifting' drone gets green light from Transport Canada Salesforce appoints co-CEO About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content A checklist for success in the cloud Ontario’s Grey County realizes disaster recovery is not a business continuity plan Old sayings convey current truths about the journey to cloud Turning cloud concepts into growth opportunities Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada