https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/411701-2/411701
SAP to acquire survey software Qualtrics for $8 billion | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Infrastructure Software SAP to acquire survey software Qualtrics for $8 billion Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: November 12th, 2018 Waldorf, Germany-based SAP SE announced it has made a deal to acquire survey software firm Qualtrics for $8 billion. Qualtrics is co-headquartered in Provo, Utah and Seattle, Wash. and identifies itself as a leader in the experience management (XM) software category. The deal came in the 11th hour before Qualtrics was to launch an initial public offering. SAP says it will be able to combine its operational data from its enterprise resource planning (ERP) suite, widely used around the world, with Qualtric’s experience data. This should allow its customers to deliver better customer, employee, product, and brand experiences, according to a press release from SAP. It also offered this statement from CEO Bill McDermott: “We continually seek out transformational opportunities – today’s announcement is exactly that. Together, SAP and Qualtrics represent a new paradigm, similar to market-making shifts in personal operating systems, smart devices and social networks. SAP already touches 77 percent of the world’s transactions. When you combine our operational data with Qualtrics’ experience data, we will accelerate the XM category with an end-to-end solution with immediate global scale. For Qualtrics, this introduces a dynamic new partner with the belief, passion and scale to bring experience management to millions of customers around the world.” Qualtrics CEO Ryan Smith will stay on to lead his team through the acquisition. The acquisition will lead to cross-selling opportunities for SAP to introduce Qualtrics to its 413,000 customers. Qualtrics is categorized by software reviews website G2 Crowd as an enterprise feedback management tool. It’s rated 4.5 stars out of five there, and recognized as #1 in satisfaction in winter 2016. Competitors include Google Forms, SurveyMoney, AskNicely, Zoho Survey, and Polldaddy. SAP says that it expects the acquisition to close in the first half of 2019. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Infrastructure, Software acquisitions, digital experience management, SAP, survey Western Digital announces new memory extension drive France calls for nations to condemn malicious cyber activities at opening of International Governance Forum About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Fixing ‘unmanageable’ Phoenix system will take roughly a year, says SAP SAP selected by government to test a replacement for Phoenix pay system Insight Partners to acquire data protection company Veeam IT can be a partner to improve employee experience for the better Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada