https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/want-the-best-reviewd-enterprise-mobility-management-youll-need-to-use-macs-shows-softwarereviews-com-report/415540
Want the best-reviewed enterprise mobility management? You'll need to use Macs, shows SoftwareReviews.com report | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Software Wireless & IoT Want the best-reviewed enterprise mobility management? You’ll need to use Macs, shows SoftwareReviews.com report Lynn Greiner @lynngr Published: March 5th, 2019 Enterprise mobility management (EMM) is a benign term for a complex product. It’s not easy to manage products that manage products, and it’s even harder to decide which one to choose when you’re shopping for one. The same dilemma arises when on the hunt for many other IT products, from ERP to ITSM and onwards through the alphabet soup of categories. Analyst reports help, but a little real-world insight rounds out the picture. That’s what’s offered by SoftwareReviews.com, a division of analyst firm Info-Tech Research Group. Its reviews, based on an intense survey gathering 130 data points, provide input to three reports examining various facets of a category: an overall look at vendors, customer service, and in-depth individual product reports. The site currently holds over 27,000 reviews covering 115 categories, with the goal of hitting 200 categories by July of this year. Reports have been launched for 50 categories so far, according to SoftwareReviews.com President David Piazza. As with any review site, data quality can be an issue, so the SoftwareReviews.com team performs rigorous checking before a review’s data gets into reports, verifying the reviewer’s identity and qualifications on LinkedIn, checking that what they’re reviewing matches what’s appropriate for their position, and examining the review itself for consistency (eg: if the reviewer says a product is wonderful, then rates it poorly on all attributes, that’s a red flag). Piazza says that currently, only a quarter of reviews make the cut for inclusion in a report. Which brings us back to EMM. The report lists 54 possibilities, but since not all have been reviewed, only discusses eight vendors (this is the first EMM report; other categories look at more vendors, as will this one as the number of reviews increases). There are two broad categories: Product Features and Satisfaction (as one would expect), and Vendor Experience and Capabilities. The more interesting one is an excruciatingly blunt assessment of the users’ emotional response to the product and vendor. Download the whole report: Enterprise Mobility Management – data quadrant As you can see on the Quadrant and in the Category Overview, Jamf Pro topped the bulk of the ratings, with Cisco Meraki Systems Manager occupying second place. What the report doesn’t tell you is that Jamf Pro is Apple-centric, while the other products on the list are cross-platform. You need to have some knowledge of the products to make best use of the ratings. As long as you take that into account, you can get a good picture of peoples’ satisfaction with the feature sets and vendor capabilities. In this report, the top spots are consistently Jamf Pro and Cisco Meraki, with only a few exceptions. Customers were happier with Microsoft Enterprise Mobility Suite and Citrix XenMobile (rated second and third, albeit by only a percentage point over fourth-rated Cisco) in the Mobile Device Management and Security section, and Cisco rated fifth, below Trend Micro Mobile Security, Microsoft Enterprise Mobility Suite, and MobileIron Enterprise Mobility Management Platform in the Mobile Productivity section. Jamf Pro only budged from top spot in three sections: Reporting (it was third, after Cisco and Microsoft), and SSO and Identity Management and Location Services, where it was second to Cisco. The Emotional Footprint section is where most eyebrows will be raised. It measures how well vendors treat customers after the contract is signed. It asks questions like, does the vendor have a customer-first attitude, or does it look after its own interests first? Does it handle conflicts with integrity? Is it fair? Is it trustworthy? Piazza said that the opposite ends of each scale, such as “Big Fat Liar” vs “Trustworthy”, were deliberately provocative. And while purchasing decisions can’t be entirely based on emotional factors, given that most customers (90 per cent, according to Piazza) tend to renew product contracts, it makes sense to see how existing customers are treated before jumping into bed with a vendor. Here, we see some differences. Jamf Pro slips from the top spot in multiple categories (although it is still on top overall), most prominently in the Negotiation and Contract “Over Promised” vs “Under Promised” category, where it rates a woeful sixth, with 17 per cent saying it over-promises. Cisco Meraki topped that category. When you look at the number of vetted reviews for each product (shown on the Category Overview table), it’s easy to see that results will likely change for some of them as more reviews come in. The minimum number for inclusion in the ratings was 10, and with so few, a couple of grumpy people can drag a product down. Piazza says that once there are 30 or 40, ratings will tend to stabilize. A new EMM report containing almost 100 additional reviews and several more products will be out later this month, and by then positions may have shifted. Software, Wireless & IoT Enterprise Mobility Management (EMM), Info-Tech Research group, SoftwareReviews.com Canadian 5G development on track, says Nokia and Ericsson Cogeco Peer 1's new owner will invest in fiber networks, says president About Lynn Greiner Lynn Greiner has been interpreting tech for businesses for over 20 years and has worked in the industry as well as writing about it, giving her a unique perspective into the issues companies face. She has both IT credentials and a business degree. Follow Follow @lynngr on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content ITWC partners with SoftwareReviews.com – because buying enterprise software should be more like deciding where to eat for dinner BlackBerry Mobility in Financial Services: A Regulatory Compliance Checklist Is there a best way through a Microsoft licensing review? Fluke spinoff targets app performance market Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada