https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/government-of-canada-unveils-move-to-public-cloud/401540
Government of Canada moves unclassified data to the cloud | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Emerging Tech Public Sector Government of Canada unveils move to public cloud Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Published: February 7th, 2018 The time has finally come for the Canadian federal government to move to the cloud. In an announcement on Feb. 7, Carla Qualtrough, Minister of Public Services and Procurement and minister responsible for Shared Services Canada (SSC), announced that SSC is now offering public cloud computing services for the Government of Canada. Carla Qualtrough, Minister of Public Services and Procurement and minister responsible for Shared Services Canada. So far, SSC has awarded 22 contracts for public cloud computing services, and promises more will follow. It did not share specific details about what companies were awarded contracts or what cloud provider it will be using but ITWC has reached out for comment. The department will collaborate with the Treasury Board Secretariat to act as a cloud broker, meaning it will be in charge of distributing government funds for such projects and will work with agencies to select the right solution for their needs, while also providing security, operations, and IT assistance. At the moment, the cloud services will handle only unclassified data, which includes storing publicly accessible collections such as archived material, government-generated open data, and big data sets generated by the scientific community. The government is hopeful that this will be useful for things like emergency response, conservation, transportation, establishing property rights to consumers’ social networking, and tourism. “These cloud services bring an exciting new era in how federal services and programs will be delivered to Canadians,” Qualtrough says at a press conference in Ottawa. “The cloud will allow the Government of Canada to harness the innovation of private-sector providers to make its information technology more agile. Cloud services will make it easier for Canadians to access new digital services and programs such as geospatial systems which support our scientists and city planners.” Making the announcement at the Cloud First Day event hosted by the Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat. This move to a more modern IT infrastructure is meant to solidify the Liberal administration’s commitment to open government, she continues, as well as improve the responsiveness, flexibility and value of the applications used to deliver programs and services. It will also give Canadians increased access to government data and services, and enable better analysis of unclassified scientific data sets that may be too large to process via traditional methods. President of the Treasury Board of Canada Scott Brison says the government now requires agile new cloud-based solutions to respond to the changing needs of Canadians while calling modern IT infrastructure “the backbone of better digital service delivery.” “Building modern user-centric digital services is key to us raising the bar in terms of how we serve our citizens. We can’t be a Blockbuster government when we’re serving a Netflix citizen,” he continues. “If a company fails to get digital right, it’s out of business; if a government fails to get it right it becomes out of touch. Our relevance to citizens is in jeopardy if we can’t deliver world-class digital services and cloud is a critical piece of providing good digital services. We’re making investments in IT, and we’re considering cloud solutions and the advantages of them over expensive hardware. Related Stories CRTC exec director reconfirms Canada’s commitment to net neutrality You don’t have to sacrifice privacy for security, says former Ontario privacy commissioner Introducing Minister Qualtrough. With cloud computing available on an as-needed basis, the government can save costs by tailoring services to its specific needs. It also gives developers a safe space to create new IT applications. The Correctional Services of Canada, for example, uses the cloud to more effectively manage its technical services and facilities across Canada, according to Qualtrough, adding that this type of success is what the government will build on. The government seems open to moving more data to the cloud in the future, with the minister saying there will be a separate procurement process for cloud services to handle higher data security requirements at a later date. Cloud, Emerging Tech, Public Sector Canadian government, cloud services, procurement, shared services Vancouver and Surrey join forces for Smart Cities Challenge Toronto wants partners with cyber security in mind as it modernizes IT, says deputy CIO About Mandy Kovacs Mandy is a lineup editor at CTV News. A former staffer at IT World Canada, she's now contributing as a part-time podcast host on Hashtag Trending. She is a Carleton University journalism graduate with extensive experience in the B2B market. When not writing about tech, you can find her active on Twitter following political news and sports, and preparing for her future as a cat lady. Follow Follow @MandyVKovacs on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content A quick guide for businesses navigating Canada’s COVID-19 Economic Response Plan Bell petition to cabinet: cheaper wholesale internet ‘yield no real benefits for Canadians’ City of Ottawa to launch 311 AI chatbot powered by Microsoft’s Power Virtual Agent RCMP charges two in Montreal over Bell customer data theft Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada