https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/google-makes-ascension-partnership-public-after-healthcare-data-reveal/423890
Google publicizes Ascension partnership after healthcare data reveal | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Privacy & Security Google publicizes Ascension partnership after healthcare data reveal Tom Li @itworldca Published: November 12th, 2019 Google has unveiled its partnership with Ascension, one of U.S.’s largest healthcare providers, hours after a Wall Street Journal article revealed that the search giant has been collecting detailed personal health data without notifying the doctors or patients. The report detailed “Project Nightingale”, a collaboration between Google and Ascension to create a predictive patient care program. Wall Street Journal wrote that around 150 Google employees had access to lab results, doctor diagnoses, and hospitalization records amounting to a complete health history, with patient names and dates of birth, all without notifying doctors or patients. As a non-profit organization, Ascension operates more than 2,600 sites across 21 states, including 151 hospitals and more than 50 senior care facilities. Google has been fiercely competing in the healthcare space. Over the years, it has worked with healthcare organizations including Cleveland Clinic, American Cancer Society, and Doctors on Demand. At its Google I/O 2018 keynote, Google Chief Executive Officer Sundar Pichai demonstrated how AI can be used to diagnose diabetic retinopathy. Both Google and Ascension released their respective press releases just hours after the Wall Street Journal’s article was published. In its press release, Google maintained that its work complies with industry regulations. It specifically mentioned the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), a law passed in 1996 that outlines the protection and confidential handling of sensitive health data. HIPAA restricts how doctors and healthcare providers can share and use patient information. Google also detailed its other projects with Ascension. Aside from creating healthcare AI solutions, it’s also looking to host Ascension’s infrastructures and providing G Suite productivity tools. Ascension said that all data is guarded by “robust data security and protection effort”. Artificial Intelligence, Privacy & Security AI, Google, healthcare, postmedia Hashtag Trending - Google collects healthcare data; Twitter improves election honesty; YouTube yanks unprofitable channels OpenText Enfuse 2019: The Carbonite acquisition, new apps, and updates About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada