https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canadas-cio-strategy-council-publishes-national-ai-standards/422722
Canada's CIO Strategy Council publishes national AI standards | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Canada’s CIO Strategy Council publishes national AI standards Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: October 10th, 2019 In what it claims is a world first, Canada’s CIO Strategy Council has released a new set of standards to help organizations responsibly deploy emerging technologies with machine learning running under the hood. The not-for-profit organization earned its accreditation to develop National Standards of Canada from the Standards Council of Canada (SCC) earlier this year. With the pace of innovation outpacing existing current regulations, the council decided to develop a set of standards – with the help of 100 experts and thought leaders – for one of the most popular and misunderstood technologies that businesses and governments across the world are desperately trying to adopt: artificial intelligence. “Internationally we see principles around openness, principles of transparency. But how do you effectively achieve it? That has not been defined,” said Keith Jansa, executive director of the CIO Strategy Council. “This standard provides an international benchmark associated with the management process that should be in place within organizations that are developing and implementing these types of solutions.” QUICK FACT: The CIO Strategy Council is comprised of four executive leaders and 40 member organizations. The standards focus specifically on the ethical design and use of automated decision systems, not simply artificial intelligence, a term that’s lost some meaning over the past year, indicated Jansa. “We needed to be very, very specific and clear in the definitions we use that apply to the standard,” he said. “It was prudent for us to ensure that we got the definition right, that we’re not covering applications or solutions that are beyond what we’re describing.” It was tricky developing a standard that provided ethical guidelines for chief innovation officers without stifling the innovative spirit, said Jansa. Luckily, the council didn’t have to start from scratch. The standard borrows a lot from the OECD’s (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) own principles on AI, which were developed in May. Jansa expects the standards to develop over time as it’s implemented in specific verticals such as healthcare, but he said it was crucial for some kind of foundational document to be in place sooner than later. Compared to the rest of the world, Canada has taken a cautious approach in its pursuit of AI adoption. Twenty-five per cent of executives in Canada said they currently embed AI into their products and services. This is the lowest of all countries surveyed by Deloitte in the third quarter of 2018. “The good news is that Canada can very much be a global lead when it comes to AI ethics,” noted Jansa. In 2017, The Canadian government began working on its Pan-Canadian Artificial Intelligence Strategy in hopes of developing ideas around the economic, ethical, policy and legal implications of advancements in AI. The national standard for automated decision systems is available, for free, in English and French, and can be found here. Artificial Intelligence Canadian cio, CIO Strategy Council, postmedia, standards Hashtag Trending- You need to install this Windows update; macOS upgrade woes; Twitter phone number mess Hashtag Trending - Apple removes police tracker app; global PC shipment rising; Apple reactivates voice data collection About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada