https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-snapchat-opens-up-to-3rd-party-developers-world-cup-a-testbed-for-new-tech-tesla-announces-full-autopilot/406394
Snapchat opens up to 3rd party developers, World Cup a testbed for new tech, Tesla announces full autopilot | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Managed Services & Outsourcing Hashtag Trending – Snapchat opens up to 3rd party developers, World Cup a testbed for new tech, Tesla announces full autopilot Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Published: June 18th, 2018 Snapchat opens its platform up to third party developers, the 2018 World Cup is a testbed for new tech, and Tesla announces full autopilot. First up from LinkedIn, Snapchat’s parent company Snap Inc. has begun working with third party developers for the first time ever and appears to be determined to avoid the privacy issues experienced by Facebook. The company’s new software-developer kit makes certain that developers can’t get ahold of any personal data on users or their friends, and it has explicitly said it doesn’t plan on using third-party data in targeted advertising from partners like Tinder. Bloomberg notes that the move puts Snap squarely at a disadvantage with competitors like Google and Facebook, which collect online data in order to market products to users. Next up, you’ve undoubtedly seen that the World Cup officially began last week and has been trending on just about every social media platform since. This year’s tournament is in Russia and is serving as a sort of testbed for new technology. For the first time ever, video replay and goal line technology will be used at the World Cup, and all referees will have special connected watches that can get notifications from the technology and help them more accurately determine extra time. The entire tournament will be broadcast in 4K and 8K, as well as virtual reality in some cases through Facebook’s Oculus Go app. SAP is working with Team Germany to unveil a new sports video analytics platform, and the game balls will have tracking microchips in them. I don’t know who you’re rooting for, but technology might be the winner already. And last but not least, Tesla announced it will turn on fully autonomous features in its vehicles’ self-driving autopilot software this August. CEO Elon Musk announced the major autopilot rollout in a Twitter response to someone concerned with how their Tesla handles lane merging when on autopilot, and says the new version of the software will support fully functional autonomous activities and will also fix the alert system that requires drivers to touch the wheel every 30 seconds or so when on autopilot. The last software update to Tesla’s autopilot was in July 2016, so this is a much-needed upgrade. The company’s over the air technology also means this update will be automatic; owners won’t need to take their vehicles to a service centre for the new tech. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos Your ERP System Is Leaking How to Better Use a Time and Labour Data Collection System to Plug Holes Caused by Fraud and Waste. Read More Managed Services & Outsourcing autonomous vehicles, Elon Musk, hashtag trending, podcasts, SAP, self-driving cars, snapchat, Tesla, third party developers, World Cup Oracle offers free Internet trouble map for finding outages Cyber Security Today: Personal information accessed at Canada Revenue, Facebook’s war on terrorists and new banking malware found About Mandy Kovacs Mandy is a lineup editor at CTV News. A former staffer at IT World Canada, she's now contributing as a part-time podcast host on Hashtag Trending. She is a Carleton University journalism graduate with extensive experience in the B2B market. When not writing about tech, you can find her active on Twitter following political news and sports, and preparing for her future as a cat lady. Follow Follow @MandyVKovacs on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada