https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-disney-server-overloadfacebook-secretly-turning-on-cameras-best-companies-ranked/423940
Hashtag Trending – Disney server overload; Facebook secretly turning on cameras; best companies ranked | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Disney server overload; Facebook secretly turning on cameras; best companies ranked Tom Li @itworldca Published: November 13th, 2019 In this episode of Hashtag Trending, we talk about Disney+’s server overload, Facebook secretly activating cameras, and Americans voting for the best brand. Thank you for tuning in, it’s Wednesday, November 13th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Reddit, the new Disney+ streaming service was immediately overloaded on launch day. By 9 a.m. EST on Nov. 12, it was flooded with over 9,500 error reports. Disney said that it’s happy to see such popularity and is working to restore service. Although it’s good news for Disney’s bank account, viewers wanting to stream the Lion King were left without service. With that said, if you’re listening to this podcast, then the issue has likely already been solved. Trending on Reddit again, a Facebook bug has been activating the camera on iPhones in the background. The bug would sometimes occur when the user shrinks a fullscreen video in the Facebook app. When it manifests, a bar would appear next to the opened Facebook app, showing a feed from the rear camera. Facebook has flagged the weird behaviour as a bug, not a feature, and is working on a fix. Trending on Google, 4,000 Americans participated in ranking 1,000 companies by their perception of 29 issues. The ranking factors included pay, diversity, and customer service. Eight of the top 10 companies are technology companies, with Microsoft placing first, Nvidia at second, and Apple in third place. Meanwhile, Tesla and Uber ranked rock bottom, coming in at 898th and 996th place respectively. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts NetApp unveils its Keystone Cyber Security Today - Mexican company hit by ransomware, Israeli cyber security company's forum hacked, and update McAfee software About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada