https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/feddev-ontario-announces-500000-investment-in-weever-apps/419739
FedDev Ontario announces $500,000 investment in Weever Apps | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Public Sector Software FedDev Ontario announces $500,000 investment in Weever Apps Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: July 8th, 2019 FedDev Ontario has announced a repayable contribution of $500,000 to Hamilton-based software company Weever Apps, which it believes will aid the company in the commercialization of its newly launched Process Manager software, a management tool designed to replace paper documents in tracking FDA compliance. Announced this morning by Minister of Innovation, Science, and Economic Development (ISED), Navdeep Bains, the contribution is of the Government of Canada’s Economic Strategy Table on Digital Industries, which is aimed at helping build up high-growth firms in Canada. “The Government of Canada is committed to supporting Canada’s scalable ICT firms, like Weever Apps, in the development and commercialization of their innovative technology to compete in new markets,” said Bains in a press release. “Today’s investment is another example of how we can foster homegrown innovations.” FedDev says it believes this contribution will also help create five new full-time jobs. This investment into Weever Apps is also being supplemented by contributions of $500,000 from MaRS Investment Accelerator Fund (IAF) and $500,000 from GreenSky Capital Inc. “Weever Apps will be using the $1.5 million in additional investments from FedDev Ontario, GreenSky Capital and MaRS IAF to launch and build out our sales team for Process Manager, our latest compliance workflow automation software product,” said Steve McBride, the chief executive officer of Weever Apps. “This cloud-based software includes innovative functionality, including audit trails and data integrity measures, which not only makes it a perfect solution for food and drug product quality, but it is also compliant with the Canadian Food Inspection Agency, U.S. Food and Drug Administration and European Medicines Agency.” Weever Apps was founded in 2011 and has been known for its work in business productivity software, and is used by clients such as Unilever, Kellogg’s, Georgia-Pacific LLC, and Xerox Corp. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Public Sector, Software FedDev, FedDev Ontario, Weever Apps 'Let's not compete, let's complete' says SAP's chief designer and futurist Visa and Paypal launch Instant Transfer in Canada About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content FedDev Ontario announces $4M investment in digital identity firm BioConnect FedDev Ontario invests into Everest Clinical Research through Women Entrepreneurship Strategy FedDev Ontario announces $3M investment in Ottawa networking firm FedDev Ontario invests nearly $1.5M for Oakville manufacturing company to scaleup Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada