https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/tip-and-best-practices-for-managing-cyber-security-incidents/417752
The importance of changing your cyber security mindset | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech The importance of changing your cyber security mindset Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: May 6th, 2019 How prepared are you when it comes to surviving and recovering from a cyber security incident? The most recent benchmark study on Cyber Resilience by IBM Security and the Ponemon Institute reveals that 77 per cent of companies still do not yet have a cyber security incident response plan in place. Of the companies that do have one in place, more than half don’t test their plan on a regular basis. An outdated plan is no plan at all The fact that so many organizations are not actively maintaining their incident response plans has serious business implications at a time when bad actors are rapidly changing and becoming more crafty. An incident response plan that doesn’t “move with the times” is really a plan that will fail. Register for “What you need to know about managing cyber security incidents” Times have changed Cyber security is no longer merely a tech issue — a nuisance to be offloaded on IT. It’s a business problem too. This is especially true as more and more businesses transform digitally. The move to operating as a software business that happens to make cars, sell shoes or offer banking services means greater exposure to an increasing number and variety of cyber threats. It means a robust up-to-date incident response plan is not important but essential. The time is now for companies to make a leap in mindset: from questioning if their business will suffer an attack to when they will be hit, and how they will respond when it happens. The good news is that, when it comes to cyber security incident response, a little can accomplish a lot. Studies are showing that organizations that have even a basic plan and some training in place to detect and manage incidents actually cut the cost of breaches, including their recovery time, by at least half. What you need to know… Do you know where your company stands with its incident response readiness? Do you know what you need to do in order to get up to full speed? Are you clear on what’s expected from your company in terms of complying with regulations and legislation? If you don’t, consider registering for “What you need to know about managing cyber security incidents.” In this half-hour session, well-known Canadian CISO and cyber-security consultant Michael Ball and IT World Canada CIO Jim Love will cover a wide range of topics and questions, including: What is cyber security incident management? What are the new regulations and legislative requirements in Canada? Practical tips for detecting, containing and managing cyber security incidents The session will be followed by a question period with Ball and Love. Attendees will receive a copy of the Business Guide to Cyber Security, and a checklist to allow them to evaluate their company’s readiness. Register for “What you need to know about managing cyber security incidents” Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech cybersecurity, Incident Response, plan, response Could software quality assurance processes have prevented the Boeing 737 MAX crash? Hashtag Trending - Canadians distrust social media; Super Micro moves production; Amazon’s delivery network dominates About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity How to stonewall the hackers trying to to get around your MFA Small businesses need to take bigger security measures OpenText Enfuse 2019: The Carbonite acquisition, new apps, and updates Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada