https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/sd-wan-is-quickly-gaining-traction-by-keeping-it-simple/414238
SD-WAN is quickly gaining traction by keeping it simple | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure SD-WAN is quickly gaining traction by keeping it simple Cindy Baker @itworldca Published: January 17th, 2019 Industry experts are expecting a “radical shift” this year as organizations toss their edge routers and opt instead for software-defined wide area networks (SD-WAN). Gartner estimates that “by 2020, more than 50 per cent of WAN edge infrastructure refresh initiatives will be based on SD-WAN.” Organizations are increasingly moving their applications to one or more clouds, a scenario that hasn’t proven to work well with conventional router-based networks. An SD-WAN uses software and a centralized control function to intelligently steer traffic across the WAN. Watch On Demand Webinar: SD-WAN: Bridge to a New Network Era Central control takes the complexity out of it, said Colin Boland, a Cisco Systems Engineer said at a recent ITWC webinar. “It enables the efficient digital transformation that enterprises are looking for.” Cisco SD-WAN was named a leader in the recently released Gartner Magic Quadrant on WAN Edge Infrastructure. SD-WANs are easy to operate As a centralized cloud architecture, an SD-WAN makes it easier and faster to provision and scale across thousands of endpoints, said Boland. A key advantage is that organizations can leverage any combination of transport services, including broadband and Internet, to connect users to applications. “Customers are asking why they should pay for the high cost of MPLS when they can get a fast Internet service like they have at home,” said Boland. The ability to manage all types of networking from a central command means that IT has the ability to do “zero-touch” provisioning and configurations, said Boland. “Previously, it could take days or weeks to roll trucks,” he said. Now, we can get it up and running in hours.” It also means that an organization can have real-time visibility and analytics on how the entire network is performing to support the applications. According to Gartner, 30 per cent of organizations say they need better analytics and visibility on the WAN because they spend too much time troubleshooting. With SD-WAN, all of the information is available on an easy-to-use dashboard on a “single pane of glass,” said Boland. “With that, we’re able to measure latency, loss, and jitter and steer traffic in real-time to ensure that quality-of-service metrics are met.” Predictive analytics help take the guesswork out of planning for the future by reviewing current trends to predict what will be needed to optimize application performance. “It allows you to make good decisions and be more proactive,” said Boland. Security is integrated from the start The changing work environment, where applications are accessed from many locations by workers and third parties, like contractors, creates new security challenges. As well, new approaches are needed to manage the risks associated with increased use of the cloud and the Internet. With SD-WAN, security policies are all centrally controlled, said Boland. “It builds tunnels based on the policies at the head end,” he said. “This is where we make sure we have consistent configuration across all devices, which is much better for audit and compliance.” This way, security is built into the network and not “bolted-on afterwards,” said Boland. “Everything is visible on the dashboard. Central control just makes everything a lot simpler.” Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure analytics, Cisco, cloud architecture, latency, MPLS VPN, Predictive analytics, SD-WAN BlackBerry CEO John Chen says business world 'demanding' secure IoT Hashtag Trending - Executive leaves Snap; Fake job interview leads to hack; Roku pulls InfoWars About Cindy Baker Cindy Baker has over 20 years of experience in IT-related fields in the public and private sectors, as a lawyer and strategic advisor. She is a former broadcast journalist, currently working as a consultant, freelance writer and editor. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cisco commits $225 million to COVID-19 response Cisco leadership undergoes another shuffle involving Amy Chang and David Goeckeler In response to COVID-19, Cisco is handing out free 90-day Webex business licenses RSA Conference: Democratize security, says Cisco official, and McAfee urges work on quantum-resistant solutions Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada