https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/itwc-set-for-success-at-2018-canadian-online-publishing-awards/409090
ITWC celebrates success at 2018 Canadian Online Publishing Awards | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Leadership Opinion ITWC celebrates success at 2018 Canadian Online Publishing Awards Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: November 15th, 2018 IT World Canada continued its decade of success at the Canadian Online Publishing Awards (COPA), with six finalist entries across five categories for 2018. Since its inaugural year recognizing Canada’s online publishing industry in 2008, COPA has recognized IT World Canada more than any other B2B publisher. From awarding our editorial team for their reporting, to design and development team for website design and special projects, to our multimedia production team for videos and interactive features, COPA has recognized this independent publisher in many different ways and forms. Here’s a look at the gold and silver awards for IT World Canada this year. Best Podcast – Hashtag Trending Hashtag Trending is our daily roundup of the top trending technology news, catching you up on what everyone is talking about in just three minutes every morning. It’s the gold winner for podcasts in the B2B category! Its designed to fit perfectly into your Amazon Alexa Flash Briefing or Google Home Daily Briefing and are also available on Apple Podcasts and Google Podcasts. ITWC podcast Cyber Security Today, which delivers security news updates that can help keep your business from falling prey to the latest cyber threats, was also a finalist in the category. ITWC partner The Business Leadership podcast was also a finalist for the second year in a row, which features host Edwin Frondozo’s discussions with innovative executives. Best Branded Content – What’s possible (AWS) Our editorial team can’t hog all the glory this year. Our commercial team won gold for its custom content effort in collaboration with Amazon Web Services for this “What’s Possible” feature that imagines how different industries will be transformed by 2025 and how the cloud will help them operate in that new reality. Best Video Content – Tyco video Our Amazing Agency division made a toy doll house come alive to explain how Iotega’s smart home automation product can make modern life more simple and more secure. It won a gold award for its effort. Best Industry Feature – Municipal Interface “Passing the torch” ITWC is the publisher of Municipal Interface, the magazine of the Municipal Information Systems Association. In this feature for the March 2018 issue, former IT World Canada associate editor Eric Emin Wood writes about two retiring members that were foundational to the association’s reach across the country, and how they plan to pass on the torch to newer leaders within the non-profit organization. The piece won the silver award in this category. High fives are in order. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership, Opinion awards, COPA, ITWC Understand how AI can change your business with this simple trick Cyber Security Today: Nov. 16, 2018 -- Online holiday shopping tips About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Shaping Canada’s aspirations for a competitive 2030 digital based economy The CIO as business linchpin in the customer experience age Nominate a worthy CanadianCIO of the Year – Deadline fast approaching CDN Top 100 winners take branching paths to achieve the same goal Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada