https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/sector-2018-canadian-firms-not-quite-ready-for-new-mandatory-breach-notification/409568
SecTor 2018: Canadian firms not quite ready for new mandatory breach notification | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Photo by Howard Solomon Privacy & Security Public Sector SecTor 2018: Canadian firms not quite ready for new mandatory breach notification Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: October 3rd, 2018 With less than a month to go before Canada’s mandatory breach notification regime an expert doubts many of the country’s organizations are ready. “Based on what I’m hearing, not that prepared,” Danny Pehar, a speaker at this year’s annual SecTor conference in Toronto, said in an interview. “But they’re getting there,” he added. The president of Cyber Insurance Education, a consultancy, Pehar said that “a lot of organizations when I ask them what their thoughts are, a lot are saying, “I think we’re prepared, but I’m not that familiar with it.” However, he’s optimistic. ”I think response [to a cyber incident] is the last piece of the [security strategy] puzzle,” he said. “Canadians have gotten very good at the prevention aspect of security, they started getting better at the protection aspect, and now response is the final piece. We have to be able to respond when we get hit.” Being prepared with a response plan is what the new breach notification provisions of the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA), Canada’s private sector privacy law for companies coming under federal jurisdiction, is about, he said. Understanding the new obligations is what Pehar’s session was about. Related Articles Privacy commissioner to hear breach notification guidance comments by Oct. 2 Privacy officers have less than two weeks to advise the federal privacy commissioner what kind of guidance it should offer... September 18th, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Final federal data breach notification regulations released Ottawa has released the final version of its data breach notification regulations, which confirms that companies covered by federal privacy... April 18th, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC It’s not like CIOs, CISOs and privacy officers haven’t known this was coming. The notification obligations were added to PIPEDA in 2015. The private sector was given almost three years to consult with the government on the regulations, which fill in some of the fine details (records have to be kept for at least two years). Those regulations were finalized in April, giving companies seven months to prepare. Basically, Pehar said, the mandatory notification rules govern what companies should do after their security controls have been breached, including record-keeping. Note that the law now requires organizations to keep a record of all breaches of security controls, regardless of whether personal identifying data has been stolen. Those records, Pehar added, can be seen by the federal privacy commissioner, and, if he/she deems it to be in the public interest, can publish them. The law also details — who needs to be notified: Affected individuals and the federal privacy commissioner; — what breaches require notification: Those that create a real risk of significant harm to a person (including humiliation, identity theft, damage to reputation.). Real risk requires consideration of the sensitivity of the information, the probability of misuse of the data and any other prescribed factor (and so far there are none). So, for example, a list of just stolen names of subscribers to a hockey fan site might not be sensitive, but if they were members of a sexual assault victims group probably is. –when notification needs to happen: ‘As soon as feasible’ after a breach has been discovered. Don’t think about lying to the privacy commissioner, ‘we didn’t see it until a week ago,’ said Pehar. –what the notification has to include: The circumstances of the breach, what personal identifiable information was taken, an, estimate of the number of individuals at real risk of significant harm, and the steps the organization has taken to prevent a similar incident. The notification can be updated as more is learned. –how notification can me made: Email, telephone, letter or in person. Indirect notification (on a web site or newspaper ad) is permitted in certain circumstances, such as the organization doesn’t have recent contact information. It’s important companies have a breach response plan, Pehar said, starting with understanding what data assets you have. Managers then have to ensure there is a response process in place (what will be done if there is a breach, who on staff/outside the company will be called, is there a designated crisis room, is there cyber insurance coverage). “Organizations must now, more than ever, ensure they have in place internal safeguards, policies and procedures to adequately detect, escalate, and respond to privacy incidents,” Pehar concluded. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Public Sector data breach notification, security strategies Hashtag Trending - Spray-on antennae, Amazon minimum wage hike; Netflix’s next trick Cyber Security Today: Oct. 3, 2018 --Cover your ports, a huge U.K. bank fine and more advice to stay secure About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada