https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/rogers-internal-passwords-and-source-code-found-open-on-github/426429
Rogers' internal passwords and source code found open on GitHub | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Rogers’ internal passwords and source code found open on GitHub Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: January 24th, 2020 Sensitive data of another major Canadian firm has been found sitting open on the GitHub developers platform. Security researcher Jason Coulls said he recently discovered two open accounts with application source code, internal user names and passwords, and private keys for Rogers Communications. No customer data was found. He suspects the code belonged to a developer who has left the telco. Coulls, who works in the IT department of a Toronto firm and has his own security consultancy, initially told The Register of the discovery, after which the news site contacted Rogers. One problem is the code he saw describes data payloads and how it goes between databases and web services. “You can use that to get to the stuff that people [thieves] would go after,” he explained. In a statement late last night, a spokesperson for Rogers told The Register that “code for two applications posted on the repository hub could not be used to access any information about our customers, employees or partners, and at no time was any information at risk. The code and private keys for the web-based application have been obsolete for many years and the closed back-office application is not accessible on the Internet and the passwords to access it are disabled. We have multiple layers of security and we proactively monitor across all our applications, and there has been no activity.” But in an interview with IT World Canada this morning Coulls said the problem is worse. Earlier today he discovered five more open folders on GitHub apparently with Rogers’ customer data. “It has device identifier, customer’s phone number, how much they paid for it, how much Rogers paid in subsidies, what is on their plan. By most definitions that is a breach. It’s not a big one, but it’s a breach,” he said. UPDATE: Late this afternoon Sarah Schmidt, Rogers director of public affairs, issued this statement to ITWC: “With respect to the links we have analyzed [on GitHub] to date, we have found very limited disjointed pieces of information that do not identify specific customers, and the links are being removed.” The statement didn’t specify, but an update to the Register story now includes a link to an application made by Rogers to take down two GitHub repositories with proprietory information created by ex-employees. “With respect to the code and private keys for the web-based application we have analyzed,” the statement goes on, “they have been obsolete for many years, and of the closed back-office applications we have reviewed to date, they are not accessible on the internet and the passwords to access them are disabled.” Coulls often hunts GitHub looking for unprotected data belonging to Canadian banks so they can be warned. Last September he accused Scotiabank of poor security after discovering someone had left bank application source code and private login keys to backend systems open on GitHub repositories. Canadian banks are among the companies that aren’t tough enough on internal developers or contractors who are hired for application work, he said, and major firms should forbid developers from posting code on external repositories like Github. In addition, Coulls is adamant that IT security teams need to be more aggressive in searching not only their own sites but sites like Github for unsecured applications. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security postmedia, Rogers Communications, security strategies Cyber Security Today - Ransomware threat increases, no one getting high on this data theft and who's the good guy taking down a botnet? Dell's UltraSharp 27 4K PremierColor Monitor now available in Canada About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada