https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/sas-seeing-a-105-growth-in-ai-revenue-is-no-mistake-says-idc/421017
Practical use cases that translate into day-to-day benefits are key to SAS's AI growth, IDC says | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Jim Goodnight, the CEO of SAS, says they will continue to invest heavily into AI to capitalize on its yearly growth in the sector. Artificial Intelligence Big Data & Analytics SAS seeing a 105% growth in AI revenue is no mistake, says IDC Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: September 1st, 2019 SAS Institute is successfully differentiating itself from tech giants like IBM and Google when it comes to the development of artificial intelligence, according to one of IDC’s research leaders The analytics vendor has invested heavily in its AI business and research and development in the past year, and IDC data suggests the investment is paying off. SAS’s AI business has seen year-over-year growth at a rate nearly four times that of the overall market, which saw a growth rate of roughly 27 per cent. While a couple of other companies listed in the study had slightly higher growth rates than SAS’s 104.6 per cent, none of those companies had higher revenues overall. Warren Shiau, who serves as a research vice-president at IDC Canada, spoke with IT World Canada about the topic and said he believes SAS’s big customers, which includes Lockheed Martin, Royal Bank of Scotland, and Honda, have been demonstrated how practical its AI capabilities can be for day-to-day business operations. Shiau specifically cited manufacturing as an example, where AI can be used in conjunction with cognitive capabilities for such procedures such as production lines monitoring and quality control. Warren Shiau, research vice president at IDC Canada. Credit: IDC Canada “It’s really practical use cases. And practical in the sense that if you are operating a line of business, you can almost immediately grasp what you can implement it for,” said Shiau. “You see stuff like them using visual input to augment an analytic system. So for example, you have got a visual recognition of manufacturing defects and that’ll go into analytics system, which works with certain algorithms to spit out recommendations for what to do to address the defector.” While SAS seems to be leveraging practical use cases, which Shiau said is especially important to Canadian customers who have historically been more focused on practicality than other regions of the world, other tech giants like Google and IBM are not seeing leaving the same impact. Those companies’ focus is aimed more heavily towards deep learning, technology that’s much more difficult to educate potential customers about, he said. “IBM went in the direction of making very, very big bets on deep learning. While SAS is concentrating on very, very practical implementations of AI. And I think that’s really what the market is more prepared for,” said Shiau. “If we talk about a specific market, like Canada, we’ve always been very, very operational efficiency-focused in our business spending. That’s the way our spending tends to go; towards things like cost reduction and operational efficiency. So I think of the market like that. Are you going to spend on the deep learning AI system or are you going to spend on something that’s very practical, like increasing your production line efficiency?” This data displays the total revenue in the AI market for each company along with its year-over-year growth. Credit: IDC Canada No slowdown in spending SAS has said it will continue to invest heavily in AI, with US$1 billion committed to the field over the next three years. This will include a focus on three main areas: research and development (which SAS spends 26 per cent of its overall revenue on already), education initiatives to help customers and partners better understand the benefits of AI, and expert services to help customers optimize the benefits of AI projects. “AI has been an integral part of SAS software for years,” said Jim Goodnight, the CEO of SAS. “Today we continue to move beyond the hype to make AI real for our customers, building on our strong foundation in advanced analytics.” Artificial Intelligence, Big Data & Analytics AI, artificial intelligence, SAS, SAS Institute Alphabet's Sidewalk labs partners with Ontario Teacher's Pension to develop infrastructure Study says businesses stand to lose 20% of sales revenue forever after a hack About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content The bad guys are arming themselves with AI, but so are we, says Darktrace’s country manager for Canada 10 women advancing AI in Canada Gartner says nearly half of privacy compliance technology to rely on AI by 2023 Analytical disease tracking has come a long way since SARS, said SAS’s director of government practice Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada