https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/insight-partners-to-acquire-swiss-data-protection-company-veeam/425845
Insight Partners to acquire data protection company Veeam | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Leadership Software Insight Partners to acquire data protection company Veeam Tom Li @itworldca Published: January 9th, 2020 Insight Partners, a New York investment firm, today cemented its agreement to acquire Veeam, a Switzerland-based cloud data management company for US$5 billion. The deal is expected to complete in the first quarter of this year, and according to a press release, under the ownership of Insight Partners, Veeam will “become a U.S. company, with a U.S.-based leadership team.” William H. Largent, previously the executive vice-president of operations at Veeam has been appointed as the new chief executive officer. Danny Allan, previously the vice-president of product strategy at Veeam, will helm the chief technology officer role. According to Craft.co, Veeam generated 963 million in 2018, a 17 per cent increase year-over-year. It had 330,000 customers at the end of 2018, but Veeam now quotes that to be 365,000. Veeam’s cloud data management is its central business. The Veeam Backup & Replication solution provides data redundancy for VMware and Microsoft Hyper-V virtual machines. In 2019, Veeam released back up solutions for AWS, Microsoft office 365 V4, and announced Veeam Backup for Microsoft Azure. Veeam CEO William H. Largent. Image source: Veeam “Veeam has enjoyed rapid global growth over the last decade and we see tremendous opportunity for future growth, particularly in the U.S. market. With the acquisition, we are excited that our current U.S. workforce of more than 1,200 will be expanded and strengthened to acquire and support more customers,” said Largent, in a press release. Veeam co-investor Nick Ayers, former chief of staff to the vice-president of the U.S., will be joining Insight Partners on the board of directors. Insight Partners initially invested in Veeam in 2013 and again in 2019. Other major brands in its investment portfolio include Shopify, Twitter, Pluralsight, and Wix. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership, Software acquisitions, data protection solution, Insight Partners, Veeam Hashtag Trending - Sony’s new car, Toyota’s new smart city, #boycottCES Microsoft announces Canadian Azure Availability Zone, and Azure ExpressRoute in Vancouver About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content OpenText acquires Liaison Technologies for $310 million SAP to acquire survey software Qualtrics for $8 billion IBM acquires Red Hat in ‘largest software acquisition ever’ for $34 billion [analysis] Broadcom to buy CA Technologies for $19 billion USD Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada