https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-apple-removes-police-tracker-app-global-pc-shipment-rising-apple-reactivates-voice-data-collection/422752
Hashtag Trending – Apple removes police tracker app; global PC shipment rising; Apple reactivates voice data collection | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Apple removes police tracker app; global PC shipment rising; Apple reactivates voice data collection Tom Li @itworldca Published: October 11th, 2019 Apple removes app that tracks Hong Kong police movement, global PC shipment hits a seven-year high, Apple reinstates voice data collection. That’s all the tech news that’s trending today. It’s Friday, Oct. 11th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending everywhere, Apple has approved, then immediately removed, an app that tracks Hong Kong Police. The app HKmap.live allowed its users to track police movement in Hong Kong via crowdsourced data. The intent of the app was to improve public safety, but Apple said that protestors were using it to attack police. Conversely, the app is still up in Google’s Play Store with over 50,000 downloads. Trending on Google, global PC shipment has reached its highest point in seven years. According to a Canalys report, PC shipment grew 4.7 per cent in Q3 2019, totalling to 70.9 million units shipped. Amongst the companies, HP saw the strongest growth with 8.5 per cent year over year, followed by Lenovo at 7.2 per cent, and Dell at 5.2 per cent. Although not as dramatic as the others, Apple shipment also grew by 1.5 per cent. Canalys attributes the trend to Windows 10 upgrades and resellers filling inventory to prepare for holiday sale events. Lastly, from my Feedly feed, Apple has brought back audio review in the iOS beta. This time around, it more clearly asks the users to opt-in before any data collection begins. Under the user’s permission, the audio clips will be ushered off to Apple and help it improve Siri. The feature was previously disabled by Apple after it was discovered that clips containing personal detail were being reviewed by third-parties. In addition to asking nicely, Apple has added a delete dictation data feature, which purges all data Apple has collected for that user. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Canada’s CIO Strategy Council publishes national AI standards SecTor 2019: Experts say more resources needed to meet cybersecurity skills shortage About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada