https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/vodafone-to-chop-huawei-equipment-from-core-of-its-european-wireless-network/426949
Vodafone to chop Huawei equipment from core of its European wireless network | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by Rawf8 | Getty Images Privacy & Security Wireless & IoT Vodafone to chop Huawei equipment from core of its European wireless network Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: February 6th, 2020 The United Kingdom’s decision last week to limit carriers from putting equipment from Huwaei and other high-risk providers into the core of its new 5G networks is having a knock-on effect at one of Europe’s biggest carriers. Vodaphone Group chief executive officer Nick Read said Wednesday the company will phase Huawei gear out of its existing core network across Europe over the next five years at a cost of about US$220 million. However, he urged country regulators not to follow the U.K. decision to limit risk equipment providers to a certain percentage (35 per cent in the U.K.) of the radio access part of cellular networks. If they did that, Read was quoted as saying, it would delay Vodafone 5G rollouts by at least two years. The decision also took into account the European Union’s decision last week that countries in the EU could if they wish to apply “relevant restrictions for suppliers considered to be high risk – including necessary exclusions to effectively mitigate risks – for key assets defined as critical and sensitive” as part of a risk assessment, he said. Read made the statements during the presentation of the carrier’s quarterly financial results, according to a news report. He was quoted as saying Vodafone began stopping using Huawei equipment in the more security-sensitive core of its network last year, while awaiting clarity on security measures. Meanwhile, carriers here are waiting for the Trudeau government to make a decision on whether or how much carriers here can buy from Chinese-based network equipment makers for their 5G networks. The timing of that decision could be complicated by the fact that China has detained two Canadians in custody after Canada arrested Huawei’s chief financial officer Meng Wanzhou pending an extradition hearing in Vancouver to the U.S. The executive is out on bail while the Canadians are in jail. Moves by the U.K. and Vodafone come despite the United States pushing its allies to refuse to allow carriers to install any 5G equipment from Chinese-based manufacturers. The U.S. argues these manufacturers are a security risk because of a Chinese law that obliges companies based there to help its intelligence agencies. It also sees no distinction between the core and the access parts of a cellular network, but experts say in 5G networks there is no easily identifiable split. When the U.K. made its announcement limiting high-risk network manufacturers Huawei had no objection. Based in the U.K., Vodafone owns and operated networks in 25 countries. In Europe it operates in the U.K., Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Ireland, Portugal, Hungary, Romania, the Czech Republic and Ireland Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Wireless & IoT 5G, postmedia, security strategies, Vodafone Jeff Weiner to step down as LinkedIn CEO Hashtag Trending - Coronoavirus scares MWC; YouTube revenue detailed; Chrome to curb annoying ads About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada