https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-warning-about-connected-devices-cyber-advice-for-manufacturers-and-find-fake-celebrities/417353
Cyber Security Today: Warning about connected devices, cyber advice for manufacturers and find fake celebrities | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today: Warning about connected devices, cyber advice for manufacturers and find fake celebrities Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: April 29th, 2019 A warning about insecure connected devices available for sale, some cyber advice for manufacturers and take this quiz to find fake celebrities. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Monday April 29th. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanda.com. I’ve spoken before about the dangers of buying Internet-connected devices like security cameras, baby monitors and smart doorbells with weak security. Well, security researcher Paul Marraese has discovered hundreds of brands of devices with a software bug from a Chinese company that can allow hackers to hijack devices and spy on their owners. It seems millions of the devices are in use now around the world. The flaw is in the software that allow users to connect to their devices with a mobile app as soon as they come online. Users either scan a barcode or enter the six-digit ID stamped onto the device and software automatically does the rest. Marraese said he’s discovered a way software could be hacked. He has tried and failed to get hold of the manufacturer. There’s a link to his blog post here. Check it to see if your devices are affected. And if you are shopping for a smart device, make sure it’s made by a reputable manufacturer that you can rely to issue security patches. You may not think manufacturing companies have valuable data to steal, but you’re wrong. At a cyber security conference last week for Canadian manufacturers, I learned there’s lots they have worth targeting. For one thing, an increasing number of products for cars, aircraft, power stations, water utilities and the like have software. They can be hacked. And manufacturers — especially small ones — may be an easy way for hackers to infiltrate big companies. So here’s the advice I came away with: If you are a manufacturer you need to pay more attention to cyber security. Pay close attention to firms you buy services from: Do they have remote access to your systems? Do you have tight access control? Try to work with other companies in your sector to share best practices and threat information. And don’t forget that information security technology is a tool. You also need proper business process allowing or forbidding staff from doing certain things. I wrote two stories from this conference: One is from a senior official of the Canadian Cyber Security Centre, and the other advice from experts on combating third party risks. Finally, hackers find all sorts of ways to trick you. One of them is by creating fake social media pages of celebrities. Security vendor ZeroFox has created an online quiz to help you learn how to spot clues that distinguish between a fake Facebook or Instagram page and a real one. If you go to www.zerofox.com, look under Resources and go to the company blog, you’ll find the quiz. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Evaluate suppliers for cyber risk, Canadian manufacturers told Hashtag Trending - Twitter won't ban white supremacists; Amazon's robo-firing; UBC engineers develop anti-ice windshield material About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada