https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-stalkerware-and-ransomware-increasing-password-advice-and-updates-to-watch-for/422511
Cyber Security Today – Stalkerware and ransomware increasing, password advice and updates to watch for | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – Stalkerware and ransomware increasing, password advice and updates to watch for Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: October 4th, 2019 Stalkerware and ransomware increasing, password advice and updates to watch for. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Friday October 4th, I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanada.com. A few months ago I warned about stalkerware, which are apps installed on a smartphone or tablet that lets another person keep an eye on what you’re doing. Usually this app gets installed when you’re not looking by a spouse, lover or friend who has access to your device. This is not a parental control app a parent installs on a child’s device. This is is an illegal snooping app. This week security vendor Kaspersky put out some numbers that may give an idea of how common their use is, based on the number of detections from its security software. In the first eight months of the year there were more than 518,000 cases where the software either registered the presence of stalkerware on users’ devices or detected an attempt to install it. And remember, that number is only for devices that use Kaspersky software. Huge numbers of people either don’t use antivirus software on their mobile devices, or use another brand. Some of these apps hide themselves on devices, so victims don’t know its there. Stalkerware has to be installed directly by someone. So think twice before letting a friend, or someone closer, use your phone. As I mentioned on Wednesday, this is Cyber Security Awareness Month. As part of that Google released a public opinion poll that, if representative, shows a lot of Americans aren’t cyber aware. Twenty-four per cent of respondents said they use weak passwords like “admin” and “1234.” Fifty-nine per cent have used a name or birthday in an online password. Many people must know others use weak passwords because 27 per cent of respondents say they’ve tried to guess someone else’s password — and of those 17 per said they guess right. Well, if you can guess right, so can criminals. Look, it isn’t easy to have to remember lots of passwords. That’s why there are password managers. Google has one it just improved, which is why it released the survey. There are lots of password managers. Go online, do a search, use one of them. The FBI this week issued a reminder to organizations that ransomware is crippling those who aren’t prepared. The latest hit were three rural hospitals in the same group in Alabama. For a time new patients had to be sent to Birmingham. Last week a major hospital in downtown Toronto was hit. The FBI urges organizations to regularly back up their data and verify its integrity. Ensure backups can’t be infected by being connected to live networks. Focus on employee awareness and training to recognize suspicious email. And make sure all software gets security patches as soon as they are available. Finally, some product updates to watch for: If you use WhatsApp on an Android device running version 9 or 8 of the operating system, make sure you upgrade to the latest version of WhatsApp. There’s a serious bug that could let a hacker into your device by sending you a repeating video called a GIF. Like one of those videos of a cat doing something silly. And Microsoft has put out another Windows update to fix a printing problem. This patch is to fix ones that were issued over a week ago. It also updates Internet Explorer. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Hashtag Trending - Uber launches job app; the office is dying; Netflix uses 15% of internet Loans by phone: revolutionizing digital loan applications About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada