https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-mwc-2020-canceled-u-s-accuses-huawei-of-spying-youtube-looking-to-gatekeep-streaming/427268
Hashtag Trending - MWC 2020 canceled, U.S. accuses Huawei of spying, Youtube looking to gatekeep streaming | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – MWC 2020 canceled, U.S. accuses Huawei of spying, Youtube looking to gatekeep streaming Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: February 13th, 2020 MWC 2020 gets cancelled, the U.S. once again accuses Huawei of spying, and Youtube is looking into gatekeeping streaming. Amid concerns of the coronavirus, many major vendors began pulling out of MWC 2020 and rumours swirled that the event might be cancelled altogether. Those rumours became a reality this week and it’s lit up the web. The event’s organizers, the GSM Association, released a statement Wednesday through its CEO, John Hoffman, who said that a combination of all the concerns led to their decision. He is however adamant that MWC 2021 will still be taking place in Barcelona. The news also happened on the heels of the city’s mayor voicing his displeasure over the possibility of a cancellation before it finally happened. Relations between the U.S. and the Chinese-owned Huawei have been tense at best in recent years, and now, a new report that’s trending on Reddit has caught the eyeballs of thousands. The Wall Street Journal says that Huawei has had unauthorized access through law enforcement back doors for the last ten years to the networks that it helped build. Despite the original intention of those back doors, U.S. officials told the Journal that they were also secretly designed with the purpose of giving Huawei access to the networks. It is being reported that the U.S. has been aware of this since late 2019 and they then notified the UK and Germany. The war of the streaming services continues in full force, with Youtube redoubling its efforts to dominate the TV space as a streaming aggregator. The Google-owned video platform is reportedly in talks with several streaming services to make this idea a reality. If all goes according to plan, reports say Youtube would be in a position similar to that of cable companies in the past, in which you could subscribe for various streaming services from one sole location. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts MWC 2020 in Barcelona officially cancelled by event organizers Renting a new office building? Check its network infrastructure first About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada