https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/give-canadians-privacy-rights-in-new-law-says-federal-privacy-commissioner/418351
Give Canadians privacy rights in new law, says federal privacy commissioner | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Give Canadians privacy rights in new law, says federal privacy commissioner Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: May 24th, 2019 With Ottawa committing this week to update the nation’s public and private sector privacy legislation, federal privacy commissioner Daniel Therrien made a pitch for how to do it: Make privacy a right. “Privacy is more than a set of technical or procedural rules, settings, controls and safeguards,” he told a privacy conference on Thursday, but “a fundamental right and precondition for the exercise of other fundamental rights, including freedom, equality and … democracy.” The Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA, which covers the private sector) “should be a real statue, confirming rights and imposing obligations. It should not be drafted as an industry code of practice” Therrien told the annual International Association of Privacy Professionals’ Canadian symposium in Toronto. Related Articles Canada announces Digital Charter, promises serious fines to business for not protecting privacy The federal government has unveiled a 10-principle Digital Charter that promises to apply to future legislation and regulation, including the... May 21st, 2019 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC “The starting point for review in my view should be to give the law a rights-based foundation. It should continue to be technologically neutral and principles-based … but we also need a rights-based statute, a law that confers enforceable rights to individuals while also allowing for responsible innovation.” He didn’t suggest a constitutional ammendment. In response to a question after the speech his office said the law would confer enforceable rights to individuals. The law should also define privacy broadly, he added. It shouldn’t be limited to ensuring an individual gives consent for their information to be used by a third party, access to data and corporate transparency. “These are important mechanisms. but they do not define the right itself, a quasi-constitutional right.” Commissioner Therrien at IAPP Canada conference. Photo by Howard Solomon He noted in 2001 Senator Sheila Finestone introduced a privacy rights charter in Parliament that defined privacy as including physical privacy, freedom from surveillance, freedom from monitoring interception of private communications, freedom from collection and disclosure of personal information, and forbidding a person for unjustifiably infringing on intruding on another’s right to privacy. Therrien said he wasn’t suggesting this definition would do, but that this kind of broad definition of privacy should be discussed. Several court decisions have outlined the scope of privacy rights in Canada, he also noted. A broad definition, he added, “would ensure it reflects Canadian values” Therrien would also like the Office of the Privacy Commissioner (OPC) to be given the power to issue binding — not just suggested — guidance on interpreting privacy rights, as well as issue orders and fines for non-compliance with the new privacy law. “Events of the past year have highlighted like never before the urgent need to modernize the way privacy rights are protected in this country,” Therrien said. “Our Facebook investigation starkly illustrated that we have reached a critical tipping point on which privacy rights and democratic values are at stake. Our examination of how the Cambridge Analytica scandal happened uncovered their (Facebook’s) privacy framework was an empty shell. That is a shocking thing to have to say about a global giant that has amassed so much intimate detail about so many people.” Related Articles Canadians lose trust in Facebook as it battles privacy watchdogs Facebook committed serious violations of Canadian privacy laws and failed to take responsibility for protecting the personal information of Canadians,... April 25th, 2019 Brian Jackson @brianjjackson This was a reference to the international uproar over the discovery that U.K. based consulting firm Cambridge Analytica was able to use personal data from millions of Facebook users in election advertising campaigns. In a report issued in April, Therrien said Facebook committed serious violations of Canadian privacy laws and failed to take responsibility for protecting the personal information of Canadians. However, Facebook refused to allow an audit of its privacy policies and practices over the next five years. Therrien is now seeking a compliance order from the Federal Court. In addition, his investigation into the huge 2017 Equifax showed “very troubling shortcomings in a company that also holds vast amounts of highly sensitive personal information and plays a pivotal role in the financial sector.” Problems included “poor safety safeguards, [data] retention issues, inadequate consent procedures and, like Facebook, a fundamental lack of accountability.” Related Articles Federal privacy commissioner critical of Equifax Canada and its parent over huge breach Equifax and its Canadian division have been criticized by the federal privacy commissioner for not offering Canadians the same post-breach... April 9th, 2019 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC That’s why Therrien said he also wants the OPC to have the confirmed power to pro-actively inspect the privacy practices of organizations. (This story has been updated from the original to clarify the Commissioner is seeking rights-based privacy legislation and not a constitutional ammendment). Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security privacy, Privacy Commissioner of Canada Cyber Security Today: Shopping sites victimized, a slip at Microsoft and cryptocurrency blues Collision 2019: Fully-autonomous cars coming in 20 years About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content COVID-19: Toronto mayor sparks debate on possible use of cellphone data for infection detection During a crisis, use and disclosure of personal information may be extended, ‘can be very broad’ says regulator Paranoid privacy tool can jam your smart speaker’s microphone Canadian privacy czar takes Facebook to court over Cambridge Analytica scandal Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada