https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/top-canadian-tech-ceos-call-on-federal-leaders-to-release-strategies-for-better-productivity-and-wealth-creation/422492
Top Canadian tech CEOs call on federal leaders to release strategies for better productivity and wealth creation | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Big Data & Analytics Emerging Tech Public Sector Top Canadian tech CEOs call on federal leaders to release strategies for better productivity and wealth creation Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: October 8th, 2019 In an open letter, the Council of Canadian Innovators (CCI) called on the Canadian federal party leaders to come up with effective economic strategies and policies this election in order to promote the growth of innovative domestic organizations in the country by increasing their access to strategic capital, skilled talent, and new customers in domestic and international markets. CCI is a national business association with a membership of more than 100 chief executive officers from leading tech companies in Canada. “Canada doesn’t have a start-up problem, it has a scale-up problem, and therefore it has a wealth creation problem. When less than one per cent of Canadian firms ever scale beyond 500 employees, it’s clear Canada needs an updated economic strategy that enables domestic innovators to rapidly scale globally in the 21st-century economy. Without such a plan, Canada’s national prosperity is at risk,” said Benjamin Bergen, executive director of CCI, in a press release. Signed by more than 110 tech chief executive officers from across Canada, the open letter was written to highlight the lagging productivity of Canada, the risk that the country’s future economic prosperity faces, and the need for the government to address these challenges. The association of CEOs also expressed an interest to work with all the parties during the election to retool the economic toolkit of the government for Canada’s current economy so that the aforementioned challenges could be addressed. “We’re writing because Canada’s productivity is lagging and our future economic prosperity is at risk. We want to work with all parties in this election to address this challenge. Last year, our companies employed more than 35,000 Canadians in high-quality jobs. We exported to over 190 countries and generated over $6B for the Canadian economy. We want to continue to contribute and grow our businesses. From Canada. To the benefit of all Canadians. You can help by developing economic policies that advance innovative Canadian companies including increasing their access to skilled talent, growth capital, and new customers,” the letter reads. In addition, the members of the CCI also called on the Canadian federal party leaders to outline how they plan to manage the digital economy and come up with a national data strategy or policy for addressing the impacts of the data-driven economy. “Canadian innovators have long called on the federal government to develop a national strategy that recognizes data as the most valuable asset in today’s economy and develops legislative and regulatory frameworks that allow Canadian businesses to grow and scale in the global data-driven economy,” says Bergen. Related Download Sponsor: IBM Digital Reinvention in action: What to do and how to make it happen Register Now Big Data & Analytics, Emerging Tech, Public Sector Canadian innovation, data driven, federal government, scale-up, start-up Canadian credit reporting agency compromised through third party Study suggests pace of cyber attacks on Canadian firms increasing About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Expert says CRTC’s data plan proposals for telcos are ‘misguided’ Trudeau government pushes streaming giants to support Canadian content Diversity more than just meeting numbers, everyone needs to ‘go all in’ says #movethedial founder Canadian venture capital sufficiency study: Key takeaways Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada