https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ericsson-announces-partnership-with-carleton-university-to-research-5g-tech/427863
Ericsson announces partnership with Carleton University to research 5G tech | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Ottawa's Carleton University Education Mobility Public Sector Wireless & IoT Ericsson announces partnership with Carleton University to research 5G tech Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: February 28th, 2020 Ericsson has announced a new multi-year partnership with Carleton University to further advance the school’s programs for engineers and computer scientists and generate research in the field of 5G technology. “This collaboration will drive innovation, train skilled workers and, over the long term, build more reliable, secure technology for the future of 5G wireless communications,” said Marcos Cavaletti, the head of Ottawa site for Ericsson, in a press release. “Advancements in 5G will have an incredible impact on communication, the economy and societies around the world, and Ericsson and Carleton are ready to meet these challenges together.” Titled the Ericsson-Carleton University Partnership for Research and Leadership in Wireless Networks, it will fund research projects, graduate student internships, an Ericsson fellowship program, experiential learning opportunities for Computer Science and Engineering students, and even a new centre of excellence and associated laboratories for 5G wireless networks research in Carleton’s new building. “We are thrilled to partner with Ericsson to develop transformative 5G technology and to prepare the next generation of leaders in wireless communications,” said Benoit-Antoine Bacon, the president and vice-chancellor of Carleton, in the press release. “We are always seeking partnerships that are relational and wholistic rather than transactional, and the Ericsson team has been absolutely forward-thinking and visionary in their approach.” Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Education, Mobility, Public Sector, Wireless & IoT 5G, Carleton University, Ericsson Canadian tech workers least likely to explore new careers, according to Indeed University of Waterloo launches healthtech venture fund About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content ISED details 3,500MHz 5G spectrum auction criterias Rajeev Suri to step down as president and CEO of Nokia TekSavvy partners with Ericsson to upgrade broadband for over 30,000 households in southwestern Ontario Renting a new office building? Check its network infrastructure first Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada