https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/why-a-seemingly-insignificant-financial-merger-triggered-huge-wave-of-canadian-phishing-attacks/411929
Why a seemingly insignificant financial merger triggered huge wave of Canadian phishing attacks | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image from Shutterstock.com Privacy & Security Why a seemingly insignificant financial merger triggered huge wave of Canadian phishing attacks Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: November 16th, 2018 In February two Canadian bank-owned co-operatives, Interac Association – which runs the inter-bank debit card network – and Acxsys Corp. – which among other things runs Interac’s e-transfer and Online service – announced they were merging to form Interac Corp. Missed that breathtaking news, did you? Well, cyber criminals didn’t. According to security vendor RSA, a gang or gangs used that information to launch a wave of phishing attacks against residents here, hoping to sucker them into giving up their usernames and passwords by pretending to from Interac or the Canada Revenue Agency and asking for confirmation of transactions. What’s so interesting about Interac? As the operator of Canada’s inter-bank debit card network anyone who gets hold of a bank customers debit card credentials can immediately drain the account. Cash. No stolen credit card numbers to peddle. “There was confusion about what it meant (for customers),” Grant said, and criminals took advantage of it. The attack campaigns have been going on for months. In fact, RSA’s latest Quarterly Fraud Report, released this week, says during the third quarter 52 per cent of the 19,000 phishing emails and texts around the world detected by RSA equipment on customer networks were targeted at Canada. Number two was the United States, with a mere nine per cent of the volume. Not all of them were Interac-related, Angel Grant, director of RSA’s identity and fraud risk intelligence products said in an interview Thursday, but it was the largest category — and it has been since February. She couldn’t say how many people here fell for the Interac-related scams, but admitted the fact that it has been going on so long is a sign they’ve been successful. Grant did say it’s typical of how cyber criminals work: Basing phishing attack campaigns around an event. Similar to the Interac announcement, RSA also saw a similar increase in phishing in Spain after several major banks there launched instant transfer services, Grant said. Most infosec pros would be more familiar with news reports of online scams that emerged during this year’s World Cup competition in Russia. Related Articles Cyber Security Today: World Cup scam, don’t get boxed in, more Spectre bugs found Malware in comments on websites are spreading World Cup betting sites, don’t get boxed in by cloud storage and more... July 13th, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Interac outlines how it plans to secure Canada’s digital identity service The Interac Association could play a key role in helping to secure transactions conducted on a digital identity network that's... November 24th, 2017 Brian Jackson @brianjjackson “Any time there’s an event or a disruptive change in a market cyber criminals tend to take advantage of that confusion or excitement or sense of emergency,” Grant said. “In this case we saw the re-rollout of Interac at the beginning of the year where they combined with Acxsys (Corp.) into one organization, which offered new and different electronic transfer services. “Many of the phishing emails people would receive would ask them to transfer funds, or pretend to come from the Canada Revenue Agency and ask them to verify their account information so they can get their disbursements of payments” relating to the Interac change, she said. Not only was there a spike in phishing email, Grant said, but also in text messages asking people to verify their personal information so they could have disbursements transferred, or pretending to be someone trying to transfer fund to their account and wanting to verify account information. Like most phishing campaigns, Grant said, criminals will spin off an associated campaign if the first one is successful. In this case, following the initial phony messages purporting to be from Interac, a campaign of messages purporting to be from Canada Revenue went out relating to the use of Interac for paying income taxes. To read the full RSA Q3 report click here. Registration required Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Interac, phishing, RSA, security strategies Cyber Security Today: Nov. 16, 2018 -- Online holiday shopping tips BlackBerry makes largest acquisition ever in $1.4B purchase of AI firm Cylance About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada