https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-amazons-cashier-less-store-canada-tests-blockchain-top-tech-firms-could-combine-for-1-trillion-in-2018/400991
Hashtag Trending - Amazon's cashier-less store, Canada tests blockchain, top tech firms could combine for $1 trillion in sales in 2018 | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Managed Services & Outsourcing Hashtag Trending – Amazon’s cashier-less store, Canada tests blockchain, top tech firms could combine for $1 trillion in 2018 Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Published: January 23rd, 2018 Amazon officially opens its first cashier-less store, the Canadian government tests out blockchain, and the top ten tech companies could combine for more than $1 trillion in sales by the end of the year. Trending on Twitter today is reaction from the official opening of Amazon’s first cashier-less store in Seattle on Monday. While there are employees making food, stocking shelves, and helping customers, the store uses artificial intelligence, computer vision, and sensors instead of checkout cashiers to streamline the shopping experience. Users need to have the Amazon Go app, which is scanned by a turnstile at the front door when they walk in to shop. Cameras and sensors in the store track what users pick up and what they put back, and once they have everything they need, the customer’s app is scanned by the turnstile again as they leave and whatever they buy is charged to their Amazon account. Early reviews say everything worked properly and that the whole experience felt like a better version of the self-checkout kiosks most grocery stores have now. Prices were not overinflated, and the return policy is really just an instant refund if you indicate on your app that you’re not satisfied with a product. Next, from Reddit, the Canadian government has launched a trial exploring the use of blockchain technology to make government research grant and funding information more transparent to the public. For those who are unaware, blockchain is a system of public ledgers that record transactions between many different users. Once data is entered into the chain, it is secure and permanently unchangeable. The National Research Council is using the Canadian-made Catena Blockchain Suite to publish funding and grant data in real time. Whenever a change is made to a grant or a new one is awarded to a company or individual, the information stored on the blockchain is updated and posted on an online database that can be accessed and viewed by anyone. And lastly from LinkedIn is news that for the first time ever, the ten biggest US tech companies are expected to surpass $1 trillion in sales this year when all their yearly revenues are aggregated. According to analysts on Wall Street, the combined revenues of Apple, Amazon, Google parent company Alphabet, Microsoft, IBM, Intel, HP, Facebook, Cisco, and Oracle, will rise by more than 15 per cent this year to reach $1.078 trillion dollars by the end of 2018. Careers, Managed Services & Outsourcing Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Blockchain, Canadian government, Cisco, Facebook, Google, hashtag trending, HP, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, National Research Council, Oracle, podcasts Intel urges halt to installing its Meltdown/Spectre patches Bell acknowledges data breach About Mandy Kovacs Mandy is a lineup editor at CTV News. A former staffer at IT World Canada, she's now contributing as a part-time podcast host on Hashtag Trending. She is a Carleton University journalism graduate with extensive experience in the B2B market. When not writing about tech, you can find her active on Twitter following political news and sports, and preparing for her future as a cat lady. Follow Follow @MandyVKovacs on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada