https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-wework-canada-in-limbo-match-com-sued-facebook-standards-confusion/422255
Hashtag Trending – WeWork Canada in limbo, Match.com sued, Facebook standards confusion | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – WeWork Canada in limbo, Match.com sued, Facebook standards confusion Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: September 27th, 2019 WeWork Canada’s plans are in limbo after its CEO exits, Match.com allegedly tricked hundreds of thousands of users into buying subscriptions, and Facebook confirms that politicians aren’t held to a higher standard on its platform. On the heels of WeWork CEO Adam Neumann’s exit, users on LinkedIn are wondering where this leaves the company’s Canadian business. It’s a valid question, because Neumann isn’t the only recent exit from the company. WeWork’s top two Canadian executives left the company this summer, casting doubts over its plans to expand in the country. Toronto is one of the office-sharing company’s fastest-growing markets, and also operates in Montreal, Vancouver and Calgary. Some landlords in Canada are reporting issues with the company’s demands and leasing process, and WeWork will likely put off going public until next year, according to Bloomberg. Received a love interest ad recently? It might have been a scam. Match.com allegedly tricked hundreds of thousands of users into buying subscriptions by sending them fake ads, according to a lawsuit filed by the FTC. The news, now trending on LinkedIn, suggests the dating site also lured customers with deceitful promotions, and later made it hard for them to dispute charges, or even cancel subscriptions. Match.com’s CEO has denied the FTC’s claims. And lastly, trending on Reddit, news of Facebook finally putting into writing what many of us have known for years – the platform’s community “standards” don’t apply across the platform. The company recently clarified that politicians’ posts are officially exempt from Facebook’s fact checking and decency standards, with a few exceptions. Facebook’s VP of communications noted in a recent blog post that Facebook by default “will treat speech from politicians as newsworthy content that should, as a general rule, be seen and heard and that the company does not believe that it’s appropriate for it to “referee political debates”. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Elevate: The smart city debate Cyber Security Today -- Crafty email scammers, bad webcam security and watch out for 'fleeceware' About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada