https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/amd-ceo-lisa-su-joins-ciscos-board-of-directors/426604
AMD CEO Lisa Su joins Cisco's board of directors | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. AMD CEO Lisa Su holding a Ryzen 4000 series mobile processor. Leadership AMD CEO Lisa Su joins Cisco’s board of directors Tom Li @itworldca Published: January 28th, 2020 AMD chief executive officer Lisa Su officially joined Cisco’s board of directors Jan. 27 to help guide the company on investors’ behalf. Dr. Su joined AMD in 2012 and now oversees both AMD’s processor and graphics divisions. Prior to AMD, her distinguishing roles included general manager at Freescale Semiconductor, vice-president of semiconductor R&D at IBM silicon technologies, Texas Instrument’s technical staff. “Lisa is an accomplished business leader with deep expertise in the semiconductor industry,” said Chuck Robbins, chairman and CEO, Cisco. “We look forward to her contributions to Cisco’s board and our business as we continue to develop groundbreaking technologies, and a new internet for the 5G era that will help our customers innovate faster than ever before.” Dr. Su has a Bachelor of Science, Master of Science and Doctorate degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership AMD, CEO, Cisco, IT leadership, women in IT IBM Food Trust ensures savory olive oil and better coffee HPE wants to help make data centres greener, unveils new efficiency label About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cisco commits $225 million to COVID-19 response Why aren’t women in cybersecurity? Because sometimes they get groped at work Only one woman applied for information security job, a clear signal that ‘something isn’t working right’ Don’t accept ‘no,’ women who want careers in cybersecurity can get one, says Juniper Networks exec Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada