https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/blackberry-launches-new-mobile-security-solution-with-microsoft-to-better-secure-office-365-apps/402967
BlackBerry launches new mobile security solution with Microsoft to better secure Office 365 apps | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Software Wireless & IoT BlackBerry launches new mobile security solution with Microsoft to better secure Office 365 apps Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Published: March 20th, 2018 BlackBerry Ltd., is no stranger to strategic partnerships, and its latest hopes to secure enterprises using mobile Microsoft applications. The Waterloo, Ont.-based company has teamed up with Microsoft to launch BlackBerry Enterprise Bridge, a first-of-its-kind solution that seamlessly secures native Microsoft mobile apps. With Bridge, Microsoft products within Office 365 will be available for users “anytime, anyplace” through BlackBerry’s secure container platform, BlackBerry Dynamics. “In our hyperconnected and hypermobile world, security is needed more than ever, but people will go around it if it’s cumbersome or adds more steps to a routine activity,” Mark Wilson, chief marketing officer at BlackBerry, tells IT World Canada at a press roundtable on Mar. 19. “You can solve that by making security easier for users, and that’s exactly what Bridge does. It provides the best encrypted security for native Microsoft apps with a great user experience that isn’t a hassle.” Users won’t notice any change in how they launch or use the apps, he adds, only IT managers will know what’s happening “behind the curtain.” Related Stories Swiss consumer electronics maker to embed BlackBerry security into IoT products thanks to new licensing deal First look at BlackBerry KeyOne Bronze – All Hands on Tech at CES 2018 The Bridge solution lives up to its name – it sits in the middle and bridges the gap between Microsoft’s apps and BlackBerry Dynamics so that they work together while still maintaining their separate identities. “Customers have been asking to have Microsoft apps inside BlackBerry’s container platform for a long time – in fact, a few global financial organizations wrote a letter to [BlackBerry CEO] John Chen almost two years ago asking for this integration, so John met up with [Microsoft CEO] Satya Nadella to discuss, and that’s how Bridge was created,” explains Carl Wiese, president of global sales at BlackBerry. Bridge is available for both Android and iOS mobile devices, and is completely integrated with Microsoft Azure cloud platform. “In an era when digital technology is driving rapid transformation, customers are looking for a trusted partner,” Judson Athoff, executive vice president of worldwide commercial business at Microsoft, says in the joint company press release. “Our customers choose Microsoft 365 for productivity and collaboration tools that deliver continuous innovation, and do so securely. Together with BlackBerry, we will take this to the next level and provide enterprises with a new standard for secure productivity.” It will be available in April/May through BlackBerry’s partner network. It will be sold via a subscription license per user per year in two ways: either part of BlackBerry’s security suite bundle, or on its own. Pricing has yet to be announced but Wiese emphasizes that it will be “soon”. BlackBerry partners have already been trained and briefed on the new solution and will be able to answer any customer questions about how Bridge works before its general availability. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Software, Wireless & IoT BlackBerry, cloud, container, Microsoft, Microsoft Azure, Mobile, security Hashtag Trending - Uber's fatal crash, EU to investigate Facebook, Apple is finally making its own screens Canadian CIO: An editors' history of 25 years covering IT's most important role About Mandy Kovacs Mandy is a lineup editor at CTV News. A former staffer at IT World Canada, she's now contributing as a part-time podcast host on Hashtag Trending. She is a Carleton University journalism graduate with extensive experience in the B2B market. When not writing about tech, you can find her active on Twitter following political news and sports, and preparing for her future as a cat lady. Follow Follow @MandyVKovacs on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada