https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hp-elite-dragonfly-hands-on-review-style-and-productivity-in-one-package/421938
HP Elite Dragonfly hands-on review: style and productivity in one package | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure HP Elite Dragonfly hands-on review: style and productivity in one package Tom Li @itworldca Published: September 18th, 2019 The Elite Dragonfly is HP’s latest take on the mobile workforce. Badged under the enterprise-focused HP Elite brand, the Dragonfly is an Intel Athena certified 2-in-1 laptop with enterprise-grade durability and security. Before we even begin to discuss the internals, the Dragonfly’s name bears ample significance. Whereas HP Elitebooks carry numerical designations, the Elite Dragonfly is just called the Dragonfly. The distinction is to highlight the Dragonfly’s unique role as a hybrid between premium consumer ultrabooks and enterprise laptops. It’s also the first Intel Athena certified business laptop. Despite being tied to the Elite series, the Dragonfly boasts a design that’s more stylish than industrious, featuring smooth, rounded contours. By switching to a magnesium alloy chassis, HP managed to compress its weight to 2.2 lbs. The metal shell is coated with an oleophobic coating to resist against fingerprints and add a dual-tone shine. For the Elite Dragonfly’s keyboard, HP had to “re-engineer from the grounds up every stack of material” to reduce its weight by 26 per cent. In my brief typing test, the keyboard felt very spacious and springy. HP also noted that the microphone’s noise cancellation algorithm actively filters out the sound of keystrokes, resulting in a 20 per cent microphone noise reduction. Elite Dragonfly’s internal components A pair of front-facing speakers flank the keyboard area–impressive given the space constraints. The speaker driver units are manufactured from recycled ocean plastic. From waste to electronics. There are three display options to choose from: a 400 nit FHD display, 500 nit HDR display, and a 1,000 nit display with HP’s SureView privacy screen. With all three being touchscreens, the displays support HP’s active stylus. Drawing using the stylus felt natural and smooth, but I didn’t get a chance to test out its pressure sensitivity and angle detection. Internal specifications include Intel 8th-gen vPro processors, up to 16GB of LPDDR3 RAM, and up to 2TB of NVMe SSD storage. The user can remove the rear panel and swap out the SSD as they please. The processor choice may be baffling: how can a device with 8th-gen Intel processors be certified for Intel Athena, which mandates a 10th-gen Intel processor? According to an Intel spokesperson present at the event, the 10th-gen processor requirement only pertains to the consumer side. For the enterprise side, 8th-gen will be the standard while Intel irons out technicalities surrounding vPro, which will conclude in early 2020. The Elite Dragonfly has an impressive array of ports for a device that’s only 1.6cm thick. Lined along its edges are an HDMI port, a Thunderbolt port, a USB-C port, a USB-A port, and an LTE SIM tray. It also supports Wi-Fi 6 connectivity. With that said, it lacks a microSD card slot–bummer for sure, but not a deal-breaker. HP will actually ship the Elite Dragonfly in two battery configurations. The smaller, 38Wh cell provides up to 16 hours of battery. A bigger, heavier version will carry a beefier 56Wh cell, which HP claims can sustain up to 24 hours on the FHD display model. Thus far, the Elite Dragonfly has been singing mostly the same tunes as a premium consumer laptop. What truly bridges the Elite Dragonfly with the enterprise side is its durability and security. Firstly, it’s MIL-STD-810G certified, meaning that it can survive harsh vibrations, moisture, temperature, and operate at high-altitudes. Secondly, it carries the same security enhancements as a standard Elitebook. HP’s endpoint security controller, combined with numerous protection software, guards the device from boot to desktop. In addition, it supports Windows Hello facial recognition, hardened fingerprint authentication, and Intel Trusted Platform Module (TPM) 2.0. HP also offers a SureView privacy display option that shields your data from prying eyes. The fingerprint sensor almost blends into the palm rest. What’s also noteworthy is its integrated digital well-being software. The software can be set up to remind the user to take breaks and provide usage details. In conclusion, the HP Elite Dragonfly certainly seems impressive. It’s got the gorgeous looks and portability a modern ultraportable, yet still touts the robust security and enterprise-focused features found on the more industrious models. It will be available starting Oct. 25 for US$1,549 (CA$2,053). Yes, that’s incredibly costly, which is why we can’t wait to get our hands on one for an in-depth review. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure business laptop, HP, HP Elite Dragonfly, HP Elitebook, HP Enterprise LinkedIn launches Skills Assessment to allow users to verify their skills Hashtag Trending - Apple doesn't want to pay back taxes; Sanders calls for ban on facial recognition; Cattle farming could go extinct About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Xerox acquires Digitex Canada Intel processor constraint to continue in 2020, says HPE Can a Chromebook replace a Windows PC? A week with the Google Pixelbook Go Dell Latitude 7400 2-in-1 2019 laptop review: As flexible as you are Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada