https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/crtc-exec-director-reconfirms-canadas-commitment-to-net-neutrality/401523
CRTC exec director reconfirms Canada's commitment to net neutrality | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Public Sector Wireless & IoT CRTC exec director reconfirms Canada’s commitment to net neutrality Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: February 7th, 2018 Telecom watchdog Chris Seidl reiterated the importance of net neutrality in Canada during a House of Commons committee meeting yesterday. The executive director of the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) appeared before the Standing Committee on Access to Information, Privacy and Ethics and explained how Canada is upholding net neutrality regulations. He began by pointing to the Canadian Railway Act of 1906 when the concept of common carriage ensured that railway companies would carry all goods without discrimination. “It turns out that the same principles are effective whether we are referring to cargo transported on railway cars or data carried over telecommunications networks. It is important to keep in mind that net neutrality is focused on carriage rather than content,” he said. Seidl then listed three specific ways the CRTC has promoted net neutrality in the country. It created an internet traffic management framework that allowed it to determine compliance with the Telecommunications Act in 2009. In 2015, it ruled that service providers couldn’t suppress competitors in the market by using their influence to promote their own mobile television services. And lastly, the CRTC’s differential pricing decision from last April now prevents service providers from influencing consumers’ choices of which data to consume. “Our framework supports a fair marketplace in which ISPs compete on price, quality of service, data allowance and innovative service offerings,” said Seidl. ——————————————————————————————————————————- Net neutrality repeal in U.S. might embolden Canadian telecoms to follow suit, says CIRA CEO: U.S. decision won’t affect Canada The Federal Communications Commission’s vote to strip away net neutrality laws in the U.S. will not affect the way internet traffic is treated in Canada, mentioned Seidl. But in a recent interview, the CEO of the Canadian Internet Registration Authority (CIRA) told Itbusiness.ca that while it won’t impact Canadians in the short-term, they might feel the pinch down the road. “That’s where it gets interesting in a Canadian context, where many of the providers of pipes and plumbing to the internet are also the content providers,” he said. “You might start to see differentiating business offerings for the end-user,” said Byron Holland. But Seidl was steadfast about Canada’s commitment to net neutrality. “The CRTC has set out its approach to net neutrality, consistent with its powers and duties under the Telecommunications Act, and we will continue to enforce it within Canada,” he said. Bell’s attempts to create a not-for-profit corporation called FairPlay, which would maintain a blacklist of websites distributing pirated content is an early example of telecoms dabbling with preferential business models, said Holland. Seidl wouldn’t comment on the application. “We cannot comment on that application or any other that is currently before the CRTC,” he said. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Public Sector, Wireless & IoT Canada, Canadian government, net neutrality You don’t have to sacrifice privacy for security, says former Ontario privacy commissioner Vancouver and Surrey join forces for Smart Cities Challenge About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Canadian ICT spending could shrink by 5 per cent in 2020: IDC A quick guide for businesses navigating Canada’s COVID-19 Economic Response Plan Canada has highest wireless value among G7 nations: U.S. study Shaping Canada’s aspirations for a competitive 2030 digital based economy Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada