https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/tech-companies-need-to-allow-remote-work-to-compete-in-global-tech-landscape-says-hired-ceo/422017
Tech companies need to allow remote work to compete in global tech landscape, says Hired CEO | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Tech companies need to allow remote work to compete in global tech landscape, says Hired CEO Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: September 19th, 2019 As Toronto grows in the global tech landscape, tech companies will need to start allowing for more remote work opportunities, as location was found to be an important factor for tech workers in Toronto, according to a new study by Hired.com. 29 per cent of respondents stated they would not consider a job that requires more than 30 minutes to commute to and 65 per cent said they would be interested in a position that allows them to always work remotely. Both of these findings were surprising said Mehul Patel, the chief executive officer of Hired. And to compete in the global landscape, Patel says tech companies in Toronto will need to catch up to these demands from the working population. “I was surprised at how crucial job location is for tech workers. While Toronto is becoming a larger tech hub, it’s still not on par with cities like San Francisco or Seattle,” said Patel. “If companies in Toronto want to reach a larger, more diverse set of candidates, they should consider remote work options for those unwilling to make a long commute.” To no one’s surprise, respondents listed the salary as a determining factor in accepting an offer. Patel said salaries of tech workers in Toronto are $55,000 USD behind the global average, citing another study from Hired. Not only is the value of the salary a big factor, but also how open a company is about salary, with 74 per cent of respondents from the Toronto area saying they would engage with a company if the salary was shared upfront. The study also ranked the top tech employer brands in Toronto, according to the answers they received. Shopify Inc. Toronto-Dominion Bank Royal Bank of Canada Loblaw Digital Scotiabank CIBC Kijiji Thomson Reuters Corp. Flipp Indigo Books & Music Inc. Careers Hired, Tech employers, Toronto Canadian immigrant providing free IT career training across the country Huawei Mate 30 series launches, Canadian release date remains a mystery About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content A new Google Cloud Platform region to come to Toronto Canada’s cyber-cops – four stories about what they really do SAS ‘Safe Roads’ big data competition identifies baby boomers at highest risk in Toronto University of Toronto to build new AI innovation centre with $100 million ‘largest donation ever’ Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada