https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-google-voice-data-privacy-gaming-scholarships-apple-to-retain-mac-pro-production-in-the-u-s/422144
Hashtag Trending – Google voice data privacy; gaming scholarships; Apple to retain Mac Pro production in the U.S. | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Google voice data privacy; gaming scholarships; Apple to retain Mac Pro production in the U.S. Tom Li @itworldca Published: September 24th, 2019 Google promises not to store your voice data, colleges are giving out scholarships to gamers, Apple to keep its Mac Pro production in the U.S. That’s all the tech news that’s trending today. It’s Tuesday, September 24th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Reddit, Google says it will no longer store your audio data anymore. In a blog post, Google said that audio data will not be stored by default, and will better explain where your voice commands are going to. Users can still opt in to have their voice snippets analyzed by humans, which is what landed Google in hot water a few weeks ago. However, Google will disable human review until the user explicitly confirms that they want to opt-in. Being on the leaderboards is cool, but can you game your way into college? Trending on Google, 200 colleges in the U.S. are offering $16 million in esports scholarships. In one case, grade 11 students were being offered up to $400,000 to play games in college. In addition, esports companies are helping high school students set up gaming stations and practice labs. The esports scene is booming worldwide. For example, the University of Waterloo has a team for Starcraft, a strategy game that stretches a human’s multitasking ability to its limits. Trending on Google, Apple is retaining its new Mac Pro production in the US. Apple explains that this move is to take advantage of tax exemptions on a few of its components. The tax break is defined in the federal product exclusion, and it seems to have given Apple enough of a reason to keep its production in the U.S. and not move it to China. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Kik lays off staff, shuts down messenger app amid crypto legal battle Dell Latitude 7400 2-in-1 2019 laptop review: As flexible as you are About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada