https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/university-of-toronto-to-build-new-ai-innovation-centre-with-100-million-largest-donation-ever/416303
University of Toronto to build new AI innovation centre with $100 million 'largest donation ever' | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence University of Toronto to build new AI innovation centre with $100 million ‘largest donation ever’ Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: March 25th, 2019 Rendering of Schwartz Resiman Innovation Centre by Weiss/Manfredi via University of Toronto. Rendering of Schwartz Resiman Innovation Centre by Weiss/Manfredi via University of Toronto. Rendering of Schwartz Reisman Innovation Centre by Weiss/Manfredi via University of Toronto. Rendering of Schwartz Resiman Innovation Centre by Weiss/Manfredi via University of Toronto. 1 2 3 4 Philanthropists Gerald Schwartz and Heather Reisman have made a $100 million donation to the University of Toronto to build a new Schwartz Reisman Innovation Centre to advance disruptive technologies, the university says. “This new complex will contribute enormously to innovation at U of T,” says University of Toronto Professor Emeritus and Vector Institute Chief Scientific Advisor Geoffrey Hinton, in a press release. “It will help consolidate Toronto’s leading position in the AI world. The centre will attract other AI experts and help to spark additional AI-based innovations. It will also bring together scholars from an array of disciplines to study the implications of AI in today’s world.” The new 750,000 square-foot complex will be located at the northeast corner of Queen’s Park and College St. in Toronto and will be designed by architectural firm Weiss/Manfredi. The firm recently won the 2019 AIANY Design Merit Award For Architecture for its work on the Tata Innovation Centre at Cornell Tech in partnership with Forest City New York. The project will be constructed in two main phases. The first is a 250,000 square-foot, 12-storey tower, the second will be a 500,000 square-foot, 20-storey tower. The first tower will be the new home of the Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence in addition to the newly created Schwartz Reisman Institute for Technology and Society. The U of T says it will appoint a new director to lead the institute, who will hold the Schwartz Reisman Chair in Technology and Society, as well as the responsibility of creating the programming and research initiatives. There will be new fellowships and a research fund on offer. The institute will host a major international conference among a calendar of events. The university plans to begin construction on the first phase of the Schwartz Reisman Innovation Centre in the fall of 2019. Before that, U of T will appoint a director for the Schwartz Reisman Institute for Technology and Society, plan the inaugural Schwartz Reisman International Conference, and raise awareness of the institute and its mandate. Artificial Intelligence Geoff Hinton, Schwartz Reisman Innovation Centre, Toronto, University of Toronto, Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence Ronald McDonald House Charities Toronto helps families feel at home with Flybits-powered mobile app Hashtag Trending - new Apple services; hackers breach Asus updater; Nokia phone leaked data to China About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content A new Google Cloud Platform region to come to Toronto U of T launches FinTech boot camp Canada’s cyber-cops – four stories about what they really do Tech companies need to allow remote work to compete in global tech landscape, says Hired CEO Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada