https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/phoenix-replacement-rfp-will-be-issued-this-fall-include-hr-system/408426
Phoenix replacement RFP will be issued this fall, include HR system | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Public Sector Phoenix replacement RFP will be issued this fall, include HR system Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: August 28th, 2018 Despite its name, the Government of Canada’s Phoenix pay system won’t be rising from the ashes as CIO Alex Benay has been tasked with finding a replacement. But it will at least be stabilized before the transition to a replacement system, he writes in a blog post. The federal government announced Aug. 24 that it will be mothballing Phoenix, the much-maligned federal payroll system that was introduced in 2011, and replace it with a new pay system. It posted a notice of proposed procurement on that same day in order to attract information and potential solutions that could both help stabilize Phoenix and ultimately replace it with a “next generation HR and Pay solution.” At the time of publication, there were five suppliers that have stated interest so far: Infor Terradare Solutions Telus Employer Solutions Inc. James Evans & Associates Avanti Software Inc. “The GoC is committed to exploring all options, and will be working with experts, unions, public servants, and technology providers to address the current pay challenges as well as define the way forward. In particular, we are committed to working in partnership with our bargaining agents and system users at the centre of this process,” states the tender notice. A request for proposals will be issued by the government this fall, Benay writes. Plans to host employee user experience workshops are also in the works. Benay wants a system that will better integrate the government’s human resources and pay services. “The next generation HR and pay system will be mobile, accessible, and available 24/7, because that’s exactly what our public servants expect, and deserve, from a modern system,” he writes. Following a damning Auditor’s Report in the Spring, the Liberal government put aside $16 million to be spent over two years by the Treasury Board Secretariat to replace Phoenix. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Public Sector alex benay, Canadian government, pay system, Phoenix Google's Gradient Venture makes first lead investment with Canadian AI startup Cyber Security Today: How to protect your social insurance number About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content A quick guide for businesses navigating Canada’s COVID-19 Economic Response Plan Fixing ‘unmanageable’ Phoenix system will take roughly a year, says SAP SAP selected by government to test a replacement for Phoenix pay system Information belonging to 69,000 Phoenix payees sent to wrong department Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada