https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ontario-launches-talks-on-creating-a-provincial-data-strategy/414827
Ontario launches talks on creating a provincial data strategy | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Ontario launches talks on creating a provincial data strategy Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: February 6th, 2019 Ontario has launched a public consultation on creating a new data strategy for the province with the goal of helping residents and businesses benefit from the data economy while protecting privacy. “Our government recognizes the tremendous potential of emerging data technologies, and we are seeking to get a better understanding of how we can drive innovation and unlock economic opportunities for people and businesses across the province,” Bill Walker, the minister of government and consumer services, said. “At the same time, we are committed to ensuring data privacy and building a better, smarter, more accountable government—one that earns and keeps the trust of Ontarians.” In a statement the government said the strategy will be guided by “core principles—which include a focus on ensuring that data privacy and protection is paramount, and that data will be kept safe and secure.” As part of a task force on data Ontarians can participate in the consultations through an online survey at ontario.ca/DataStrategy until March 7. The consultation will look at three themes: Promoting public trust and confidence: In the face of growing risks, ensure public trust and confidence in the data economy by introducing world-leading, best-in-class privacy protections; Creating economic benefits: Enabling Ontario firms to develop data-driven business models and seize the commercial value of data; Enabling better, smarter, efficient government: Unlocking the value of government data by promoting use of data-driven technologies. In making the announcement the government noted a recent consultant’s report reviewing provincial spending identified the need for Ontario to put data at the heart of every decision made in the designing, administering, or delivering public services. The decision by the province to start working on a data strategy comes as Ottawa is finalizing its national data and digital transformation strategy following public consultations. That strategy is expected to be released this year. Related Articles Sidewalk Labs got more info than others before Toronto waterfront RFP issued: Ontario auditor Waterfront Toronto has been criticized by some for the way it has handled privacy and intellectual property issues with Sidewalk... December 6th, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Federal government launches consultations for national data strategy Even before Facebook's Cambridge Analytica scandal started making headlines, experts were sounding the alarm about how the mountains of data... June 19th, 2018 Eric Emin Wood @ericewood It also comes after provincial auditor Bonnie Lysyk urged the province to create a policy framework for the creation of smart cities — which would include data governance and privacy — following an audit of the Waterfront Toronto project. That project to create a smart community on the lakefront in partnership with Google parent Alphabet Inc., has been surrounded in controversy over who will have control over data collected in the neighborhood. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Ontario government, privacy Weak passwords, poor web code among vulnerabilities that help pen testers City of Markham and Bell partner for smart city initiative About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content COVID-19: Toronto mayor sparks debate on possible use of cellphone data for infection detection During a crisis, use and disclosure of personal information may be extended, ‘can be very broad’ says regulator Paranoid privacy tool can jam your smart speaker’s microphone Canadian privacy czar takes Facebook to court over Cambridge Analytica scandal Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada