https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-joyce-murray-is-minister-of-digital-government-delete-facebook-says-whatsapp-cofounder-automation-will-take-more-womens-jobs/416133
Hashtag Trending – Joyce Murray is Minister of Digital Government; 'Delete Facebook' says WhatsApp cofounder; automation will take more women's jobs | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Joyce Murray is Minister of Digital Government; ‘Delete Facebook’ says WhatsApp cofounder; automation will take more women’s jobs Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: March 19th, 2019 Canada has a new minister of digital government, again. You won’t believe who’s telling you to delete Facebook now. And just when you think we’ve overcome the patriarchy, another reason that women will have a harder time in the workplace. Update: Justin Trudeau appoints Joyce Murray as president of the Treasury Board and minister of Digital Government. https://t.co/tvCfBYlpA6 — Twitter Moments Canada (@CanadaMoments) March 18, 2019 Trending on Twitter, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau appointed a new cabinet minister yesterday. Vancouver MP Joyce Murray will be the Treasury Board President and the Minister of Digital Government. She becomes the third minister for this portfolio in less than a year. Scott Brison was the first to hold the post. He announced he’ll be leaving politics in January. Then Jane Philpott resigned from the post in February, saying she’d lost confidence in the government following the revelations about SNC Lavalin. So now Murray will become responsible for overseeing the delivery of digital government services, including the Canada.ca website. The WhatsApp Cofounder Who Sold To Facebook For $19 Billion Tells Students To Delete Facebook from technology Trending on Reddit, WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton once again encouraged people to delete Facebook. It’s quite the statement from someone who sold his firm to the social network for $19 billion. Acton made the comments during a guest lecture to a classroom at Stanford University, his alma mater. He departed from Facebook in November 2017, in a dispute over the introduction of ads into the messaging platform. Since then he’s been a vocal critic of how Facebook, and other Silicon Valley firms, turn a profit. Trending on LinkedIn, the trend of automation in the workforce is harder on women than it is on men. A study from the Institute for Women’s Policy Research shows that almost half of all U.S. occupations could be replaced by AI by 2026. Now, it’s also estimated the total number of jobs will grow, but the fact is that many of the jobs we’re doing today just won’t exist in the near future. Many of the job functions that are likely to be eliminated soon are those typically staffed by women. To name a few: administrative assistants, receptionists, and information clerks. Women make up half the labor force, but make up 58 per cent of the workers at highest risk of automation. And if you’re a hispanic woman, you’re at even more risk. A quick thank you to Shireen Jeejeebhoy, who gave us a shout out on Twitter. She says Hashtag Trending is “a fun, informative podcast to start the day off.” Thanks Shireen! Careers diversity, federal government, hashtag trending, Liberal Party, podcasts, whatsapp VMware Cloud on AWS now available on Canadian soil Apple updates iMacs with new Intel processors, Radeon Pro Vega graphics About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada