https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/why-justin-trudeau-and-alibabas-jack-ma-think-the-tech-industry-could-use-more-women/396996
Why Justin Trudeau and Alibaba's Jack Ma think the tech industry could use more women | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. From left: Tech entrepreneur and Dragon's Den judge Michele Romanow, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, and Alibaba Founder and Executive Chair Jack Ma discuss the importance of adding women to male-dominated fields during Alibaba's Gateway '17 event in Toronto on Sept. 25. (Image courtesy Alibaba) Careers Leadership Public Sector Why Justin Trudeau and Alibaba’s Jack Ma think the tech industry could use more women Eric Emin Wood @ericewood Published: September 27th, 2017 TORONTO – Jack Ma didn’t think there was anything out of the ordinary about his company. During an appearance Tuesday at Gateway ’17, a Toronto event organized by Alibaba, the Chinese ecommerce giant’s founder and executive chair explained how he became a champion for increasing the number of women in the tech industry. It began in 2007, he said, when Alibaba made its initial public offering in Hong Kong. “I got some media to visit Alibaba, and they said, ‘Jack, why are there so many women in your company?'” he told reporters during the Sept. 25 event. “I said, ‘really? I did not realize that.'” It wasn’t the last time he’d be asked that question, and Ma, who started Alibaba in his apartment in 1999 with 17 friends – all of them men – said he eventually learned that in Silicon Valley few companies have more than 25 per cent women among their ranks – and that the numbers among their leadership ranks and among entrepreneurs are even worse. Alibaba’s workforce, meanwhile, is more than 40 per cent female – including a female CFO and CPO (chief people officer) – as are one third of its managers. According to Ma, the percentage is currently around 47, though it used to be higher – “we acquired some companies who were more men,” he explained – and remains a focus for the company. The reason, he said, is simple: Men focus on products, while women focus on customers. “I’m not a tech guy,” he said. “I care about user friendliness. I’m scared of technology. I want to make technology simple… and the first quality controllers I had… were girls. They always say, ‘this is no good. We should do this instead.” More importantly, he said, most of Alibaba’s buyers are women – and many of the sellers too. And few companies succeed by ignoring their customer base. Ma’s support for women in the workplace goes beyond their understanding of customers, of course – they tend to make better leaders too, he said, not to mention they’re frequently more care- and detail-oriented than their male counterparts. “When times are good, men are focused, but very fast,” he said. “When something goes wrong, they disappear. Women don’t rush like that, but they also never disappear. So this makes Alibaba’s culture very resistant.” “When I’m in trouble, most of the time it’s my women colleagues who… encourage me, saying, ‘don’t worry about it. We can go for another five years,'” he said. Echoes Trudeau’s support The subject of women in the workplace was raised during the Gateway ’17 event’s keynote, when tech entrepreneur, Dragon’s Den judge, and event host Michele Romanow asked Ma and one of his special guests, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, to discuss the lack of female entrepreneurs in Canada. Romanow has contributed to the Canadian Entrepreneurship Initiative, which asked thousands of Canadians to name their favourite entrepreneurs, and was blunt about the implications of its findings. “The first problem was that 50 per cent of Canadians couldn’t name an entrepreneur they looked up to,” she said. The second was that three of the top five Canadians named – John Molson, Alexander Graham Bell, and Joseph-Armond Bombardier – were, as Romanow put it, “great entrepreneurs, but deceased, old, and white males.” (The other two were living white males: Saskatoon magnate Jim Pattison and former Dragon Kevin O’Leary.) “What are you doing to encourage more women to be entrepreneurs?” she asked. Trudeau said that for the Liberal government, encouraging more women to succeed as both tech industry leaders and entrepreneurs isn’t merely about doing the right thing, but the smart thing. “You cannot have an economy that is doing as well as it can unless everyone has an opportunity to participate to their fullest degree,” he said. “We talk about understanding diversity and different points of view as an essential ingredients for success… well, making sure that basic diversity – half of us are men, half of us are women – having both of those perspectives represented from the start is an essential path to success.” Equally important to encouraging women to succeed, Trudeau added, is removing whatever tools and barriers stand in their way, and laying groundwork for their success in the future. “Before I could name a cabinet that was 50 per cent men, 50 per cent women, it took me a few years to reach out and draw in great women candidates from across the country,” he said. “And then once you have women in business, women entrepreneurs, women in government, the calibre of solutions changes as well.” Women in charge at Alibaba Ma said he couldn’t agree more. “One thing I find very interesting,” he said to Trudeau and Romanow: “Women really care for husbands, parents, and kids… and always ask… ‘I have two kids and I have a career. Which one should I choose?'” “Men never ask these questions. They only care for themselves,” he continued, to audience laughter. “But then when you’re running the company… men focus on products and technology, and they forget all about the people.” “Women focus on people… and technology products always include people,” he said, to loud applause. “So that’s why we have a lot of women leaders in our company making sure our products, our services, are people oriented.” Careers, Leadership, Public Sector Alibaba, dragon's den, women in IT Hashtag Trending - Uber quits Quebec, Atari’s comeback, Showtime mines crypto Tapscotts involved in $50 million blockchain supercluster bid About Eric Emin Wood Former IT World Canada associate editor turned consultant with public relations firm Porter Novelli. When not writing for the tech industry enjoys photography, movies, travelling, the Oxford comma, and will talk your ear off about animation if you give him an opening. Follow Follow @ericewood on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Why aren’t women in cybersecurity? Because sometimes they get groped at work Only one woman applied for information security job, a clear signal that ‘something isn’t working right’ Don’t accept ‘no,’ women who want careers in cybersecurity can get one, says Juniper Networks exec The WIT Network Conference in photos Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada