https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-facebook-pays-teens-for-data-san-fran-looks-to-ban-facial-recognition-wanzhou-in-court/414668
Hashtag Trending – Facebook pays teens for data; San Fran looks to ban facial recognition; Wanzhou in court | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Facebook pays teens for data; San Fran looks to ban facial recognition; Wanzhou in court Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: January 31st, 2019 Facebook has been paying teens to install a VPN to get dirt on its competitors, San Francisco is introducing legislation to ban the government use of facial recognition tech, and Huawei’s CFO is back in Canadian court. TechCrunch’s latest reporting on Facebook has got social media buzzing, again. It turns out Facebook has been secretly paying people to install a “Facebook Research” VPN, or virtual private network, to track a user’s phone and web activity. The Facebook Research app required users to trust it with access to their data. And by data, I mean all of the data. Private messages, chats, photos and videos, emails, web searches, browsing history and even location tracking. Facebook has been paying users ages 13 to 25 up to $20 per month to sell their privacy by installing the iOS or Android version of the “Facebook Research” app, and reporting suggests the program was administered through various beta testing service such as Applause. Apple blocked the app shortly after the story broke, but it continues to run on Android. There’s a lot of chatter on Reddit about a San Francisco lawmaker’s legislation that would make the city the first in the country to ban the government use of facial recognition technology. The legislation, named Stop Secret Surveillance Ordinance, will be heard in committee next month, and according to reports, has gained support from civil rights groups. In December, Microsoft’s president Brad Smith voiced concerns about the technology and suggested they adopt laws to regulate it. And lastly, on Linkedin – Huawei chief financial officer Meng Wanzhou has returned to a Canadian court. The CFO attended the hearing in British Columbia Supreme Court where her request to change who is financially responsible for her bail was approved. Canada arrested Meng on Dec. 1 at the request of the U.S. Twenty-three charges have been laid against Huawei and Meng, including bank and wire fraud to violate American sanctions against Iran. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Careers Facebook, hashtag trending, Huawai, LinkedIn, podcasts, Reddit IDC event gives glimpses of the post-2020 workplace Privacy gap for Canadian political parties; Ottawa unveils election cyber security strategy About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada