https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/418751-2/418751
Hashtag Trending –  iTunes lives in Windows; Microsoft dual-screen device; Firefox blocks cookies | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Emerging Tech Hashtag Trending – iTunes lives in Windows; Microsoft dual-screen device; Firefox blocks cookies Tom Li @itworldca Published: June 5th, 2019 iTunes will continue to exist on Windows, Microsoft teases dual-screen device, Firefox now natively blocks cookies. That’s all the news that’s trending today. It’s Wednesday, June 5th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Google, the iTunes app will continue to live on Windows. At its WWDC event on Monday, Apple officially sliced up the iTunes app into the Apple Music, Apple Podcast, and Apple TV. While the division will arrive with the next generation of macOS, iTunes won’t be going anywhere on Windows. Apple promises that there will be no change to iTunes functionality in Windows, but hasn’t commented much on how much support it plans on giving. Trending on Google again, Microsoft has shown off a dual-display prototype to its device team. Codenamed Centaurus, the project has been under development for two years. It’s rumored to be larger than a phone and will run Windows Lite, a trimmed version of Windows designed for mobile devices. Because it’s still shrouded in secrecy, no other information is available at this time. Lastly, trending on Reddit, the Mozilla Firefox browser now natively blocks loathsome tracking cookies. Cookies are small scripts stored on your computer that scrapes your surfing patterns. This information is in turn used to generate targeted ads and service suggestions. Given the innumerable data leaks across all digital sectors, Mozilla is hoping to turn cookie blocking to a standard, not just a feature. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Careers, Emerging Tech hashtag, hashtag trending, podcasts 5 significant imperatives for digital success AI voice assistants untrusted by consumers: Clutch report About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada