https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/more-data-needed-to-help-it-professionals-future-proof-their-careers/423606
More data needed to help IT professionals future-proof their careers | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech More data needed to help IT professionals future-proof their careers Steve Proctor @itworldca Published: November 11th, 2019 IT is the fastest growing sector in Canada in terms of job creation, according to human resources firm, Randstad Canada. That’s good news for tech professionals, but the fast-changing market makes it challenging to plan for the future. According to Randstad, Toronto is the fastest-growing market for tech jobs in the world, beating out Silicon Valley in the U.S. Ottawa and Montreal also made the list of the top 15 fastest growing IT job markets. Randstad reported that the top in-demand skills in 2019 are coding and programming. In ITWC’s 2019 CIO Census, tech leaders said they’re most in need of finding skilled enterprise app developers as well as data and business analysts. How are emerging technologies impacting your career? Take Our Survey Rapid technology developments and disruptive shifts in every industry make it difficult to predict whether those will be the top skills needed in the future. Consulting firm McKinsey & Company estimates in a report that “out of Canada’s roughly 18-million person workforce today, as many as 10 million workers will have to do completely different jobs by 2030”. What skills will be needed in the future? While job prospects are positive for tech workers, it’s not easy to plan their career path in such a fast-moving environment. There isn’t much Canadian data on what it will take to be successful in IT over the next five years, or more. Although Statistics Canada conducts a quarterly poll of business and their talent needs, many say the information available isn’t sufficiently detailed. “What we’re missing is the details on the characteristics on the jobs that are vacant,” Queen’s University economist Don Drummond, recently told the Globe and Mail. In other words, it doesn’t identify the skills and certifications that will be required in the future. New cross-Canada survey to provide answers To help tech workers in Canada future-proof their careers, IT World Canada and sponsoring partner AWS are conducting a national survey to uncover the essential skills needed to survive and thrive in the coming years. The survey will ask IT professionals about what trends they believe will have the biggest impact on business and their job roles in the next five years. It will also seek their opinions on the skills, certifications and job strategies they need to embrace to be successful in the changing market. The insider views of IT professionals across Canada will form the basis of a report called Strategy and Skills 2025. It will be shared with all participants who fill in the survey to help them make sure their career is on the right path. Click here to take the online survey Skills Evolved: Preparing for 2025 and Beyond. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech AWS, business skills, survey Ontario energy regulator dims plan to sell smart meter data Cyber Security Today - New security guidelines for small business, patch older Windows machines and cyber trends About Steve Proctor Steve is Vice-President Marketing and Communication with ITWC. He spent 25 years in progressively senior positions as a journalist and editor with the Halifax Herald, with his final ten years as Business Editor. He has published two books and his freelance articles have appeared in national and regional magazines. He has led social media and communication efforts for two crowdfunding ventures and written and directed numerous dinner theatres for charitable endeavours. Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hybrid AWS Outposts ‘a great option’ for manufacturing, healthcare, says AWS director BlackBerry adds Cylance to QNX, announces partnerships with AWS, Damon, and Renovo AWS makes machine learning fun AWS details steps to digital transformation, highlights machine learning Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada