https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-database-with-5-billion-records-left-open-rogers-warns-canadians-of-data-exposure-and-fbi-warns-of-financial-help-scam/428768
Cyber Security Today – database.Database with 5 billion records left open, Rogers warns Canadians of data exposure and FBI warns of financial help scam | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – database.Database with 5 billion records left open, Rogers warns Canadians of data exposure and FBI warns of financial help scam Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: March 23rd, 2020 database.Database with 5 billion records left open, Rogers warns Canadians of data exposure and FBI warns of financial help scam. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Monday March 23rd. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cybersecurity for ITWorldCanada.com. To hear the podcast click on the arrow below: You don’t expect cybersecurity companies to be sloppy. But, people can make mistakes. And someone apparently made a whopper at a British-based security company. This firm has been compiling a list of data breaches dating back eight years with 5 billion records including passwords and email addresses. But last week researcher Bob Diachenko found the database while searching the internet because it wasn’t protected. So out in the open were passwords, although some were scrambled. However many others were not. Security experts said there was enough information for hackers to launch targeted phishing attacks at people. Hopefully, by now all of the victims over the years have been notified and changed their passwords. For listeners who are technical, this was an Elasticsearch database, commonly used by companies to search data they hold. Managers have to make staff understand that if a database is open to the Internet it can, and will, be compromised. Speaking of open databases, Canadian carrier Rogers Communications has started notifying customers that one of the companies it deals with left a database open with addresses, phone numbers and email addresses. No credit card, banking or password information was exposed. However, those email addresses could be used for phishing attacks. And some of those phone numbers were cellphone numbers, so Rogers is preventing those from being switched to another carrier without authorization. You may recall me talking about SIM card swapping fraud last week. On Friday I warned about a coronavirus email scam aimed at Canadians trying to take advantage of an announcement of help from Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. The FBI says there’s a similar scam going on in the U.S. The message is asks recipients to verify their personal information so they can receive an economic stimulus check from the government. What’s really going on is a crook stealing personal information. Remember, governments will not send unsolicited emails asking for your personal information to send you money. With governments promising financial help during the pandemic crisis expect more email scams like this. People looking for government help need to resist the hope these are legitimate messages. With more people working from home cyber attackers can be expected to ramp up phishing and other ways of getting at corporate data using all sorts of tricks. More than ever be careful with email or text messages that appear to come from your IT department or company officials asking you to click on links for personal information, passwords or to transfer money. Have a phone number to officials you can call if something is suspicious. Do not use the phone number in a suspicious email. Remember, the email of a senior official may be hacked so a suspicious message can be from a legitimate account. Finally, administrators of websites using the Drupal content management system should make sure they are running the latest versions of the application. Patches have been issued to plug serious vulnerabilities. And Google is in the process of rolling out updates to the Chrome browser. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cybersecurity professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Hashtag Trending - Internet is here to stay; Netflix, YouTube slow down; Tech’s big 5 struggle During a crisis, use and disclosure of personal information may be extended, 'can be very broad' says regulator About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada