https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-video-game-detects-alzheimers-samsungs-new-vertical-tv-no-anti-vaxxers-on-indegogo/417408
Hashtag Trending – Video game detects Alzheimer's; Samsung's new vertical TV; no Anti-vaxxers on Indiegogo | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Video game detects Alzheimer’s; Samsung’s new vertical TV; no Anti-vaxxers on Indiegogo Tom Li @itworldca Published: May 1st, 2019 Video game helps to detect Alzheimer’s disease; Samsung releases a vertical TV; Indiegogo bans anti-vaxxers. It’s all the tech news that’s popular right now. Welcome to Hashtag Trending. It’s Wednesday, May 1st, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Google, a video game has been proven to be effective at detecting early signs of Alzheimer’s disease. Developed by several European universities and Deutsche Telekom, the VR game Sea Hero Quest challenges the players by having them memorize and then navigate their ships through pre-planned routes. Their performance is then compared to people experiencing Alzheimer’s disease. If you want to try it out, the game is free to play on Oculus Rift and Gear VR. With so many people glued to their phone screens, Samsung has decided that the time is right to release a vertical TV. Designed for millennials, the Samsung Sero is a 42” Quantum Dot TV that can be turned 90 degrees for a better viewing experience when scrolling through Twitter and Instagram. To easily pair with phones, the TV features NFC so users can tap their device to the TV for instant mirroring. It also comes with its own stand and supports Bixby voice commands. Selling for US$1,650, do you think Samsung is trying too hard to catch a trend? Let us know on social media by tagging hashtag trending. The US saw the worst outbreak of measles in the past 20 years due to small communities resisting vaccinations. Trending on Reddit, The crowdfunding site Indiegogo has instated new guidelines to ban antivaccination campaigns. The decision was made a campaign raised nearly $87,000 for an antivaccination documentary that falsely linked vaccines with autism. Indiegogo marks the latest tech company to demote the antivaccination movement. Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, and Amazon have all announced new strategies against propagating misinformation. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Careers hashtag, hashtag trending, podcasts Technology is the tool of digital transformation, not the outcome: OnX event Canada's 'big 5' banks launch blockchain-based digital identity service with SecureKey About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada