https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-voice-first-fragmentation-alexa-in-your-ear-alexa-in-your-boardroom/413075
Hashtag Trending – Voice-first fragmentation, Alexa in your ear, Alexa in your boardroom | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Voice-first fragmentation, Alexa in your ear, Alexa in your boardroom Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: December 28th, 2018 In 2019, voice-first smart assistants will face a fragmentation problem. They’ll also be literally in your ear. And they’ll be in your office boardroom. In 2019, we’ll be looking for solutions to a new problem – fragmentation of technology around voice-first home assistants. As services like Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant become integrated in more smart home devices, smartphones, and even cars, consumers who don’t try to stay consistent with one voice platform will find they have too many to talk to. Especially as automakers introduce their own branded voice assistants for the in-car experience, consumers will become frustrated by the number of different assistants they have to interact with and the inconsistencies of the voice experience across platforms. According to Ericsson’s 10 Hot Consumer Trends for 2019, people are already worried about this. In a survey it conducted, 47 per cent of respondents think that different assistants will provide different answers to the same question. And 41 per cent of respondents think it’s important that couples to have assistants that are compatible. I also predict that in 2019, more people will have voice assistants in their ear. And I mean literally right in your ear, as in with wireless ear buds. Just take the hint with what Apple has done with its Air Pods. Smartphone manufacturers are doing away with analog headphone jacks and that’s giving people another reason to buy a new product category of wireless earbuds that Juniper Research calls “hearables.” Juniper predicts that 271 million such devices will be in use by 2022. Brands like Apple, Google, Bose, Samsung, and Sennheiser will be the leaders of this category. But we’ll see it seep into mid-tier and budget brand devices as well. Why? Because it’s free to incorporate Alexa and Google Assistant into your device and it’s easy to do. These things will be for more than controlling your music playlist too. Juniper predicts that assistive hearables will take the lion’s share of revenues in this category, hauling in $40 billion by 2022. Finally, I predict that 2019 is the year that voice assistants enter the workplace. Alexa for Business has launched with some early customers, yes, but 2019 should see it veer out of the pilot phase. BlackBerry has said it’s planning to release an Alexa for Business device in the first half of 2019. That should help assuage some of the security and privacy concerns that businesses have, given that BlackBerry has been trusted with enterprise data in the past. Also, the long-awaited “killer app” for Alexa for Business – the ability to easily join a phone conference room with a simple command – was just released by Amazon on December 10th. Careers Alexa, Fragmentation, hashtag trending, podcasts, voice assistant, wearables Cyber Security Today: Dec. 26, 2018 -- Boxing Day online shopping advice Cyber Security Today: Dec. 28, 2018 -- Make this New Year Resolution About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada