https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/applications-for-free-it-career-training-courses-closing-soon/424714
Applications for free IT career training courses closing soon | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Education Applications for free IT career training courses closing soon Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: December 3rd, 2019 ComIT – a registered charity that provides free IT career training courses to those who can prove a need – has three January courses with application deadlines approaching. On Dec. 20, online applications for its Node.js course, Java course, and .NET course will be closed on its website. Each course not only guides students through the related coursework but also provides sessions on resume building, interviewing, and teamwork, as well as other necessary soft skills for the job market. The Node.js course will be taking place in Vancouver starting on Jan. 6, while the Java and .NET courses will be starting on Jan. 7 in Winnipeg and Jan. 13 in Edmonton, respectively. Related: Canadian immigrant providing free IT career training across the country In 2020, ComIT will also see be hosting three courses in Regina, Saskatoon, and Calgary, five in Winnipeg, two in Edmonton, and one in Vancouver; although those courses do not have a set subject matter as the organization sets those according to changing market needs. Additionally, the organization is working to add more courses in Vancouver, Toronto, Kitchener, Montreal, and Ottawa. ComIT’s founder, Pablo Listingart, says meeting market demands is all the more important with the rate of change in the IT industry, pointing out that even those with established skills and careers in the industry may need to look at adapting their roles to maintain a job. “Though some of the past roles are dying (we’re seeing people with networking certifications now unable to land jobs), those who once occupied those roles will need to adapt once again and learn new tools and concepts that will complement their previous knowledge to become a new kind of IT professional,” Listingart wrote in an email to IT World Canada. “Either you listen to the market, do your research, and try to focus on one of the trending areas and technologies like ML, AI, Bots, development on Javascript frameworks, DevOps, Cybersecurity, etc., or you focus on what you do best and try to be an in-demand professional on that specific topic.” Some topics covered by ComIT so far include Full Stack .NET, Full Stack Java, NodeJS, React, Unity 3D, and automated testing, with an eye on creating courses on digital marketing and tech sales in the near future, according to Listingart. Founded by Listingart, ComIT was established in 2016 after Listingart immigrated from Argentina to Canada and provides free IT career training to those who may not be able to afford it. Careers, Education careers, ComIT, education, training Martello tests its SD-WAN solution on 5G infrastructure, says UC testing is next Basketball Hall of Fame aims to display more of its collection with the help of Dell About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Year Zero I A Reimagination of the Future with Sophia Fairweather, One of Canada’s Brightest Young Digital Luminaries Why pizza party security training doesn’t cut it anymore TikTok hiring country manager for Canada BlackBerry and Canadian Girl Guides launch new cybersecurity badge Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada