https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-russian-intelligence-agency-hacked-oakland-bans-facial-recognition-equifax-fined-700-million/420160
Hashtag Trending – Russian intelligence agency hacked; Oakland bans facial recognition; Equifax fined $700 million | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Russian intelligence agency hacked; Oakland bans facial recognition; Equifax fined $700 million Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: July 23rd, 2019 Russian intelligence agency experiences biggest hack ever; Oakland becomes 3rd US city to ban facial recognition; Equifax fined $700 million for 2017 data breach https://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/cg456i/russias_secret_intelligence_agency_hacked_largest/ Kicking things off, we have a story trending on Reddit about a Russian intelligence agency who experienced its largest data leak ever. Reports say that FSB, Russias equivalent to the US’s Federal Security Service and the successor to the KGB, lost 7.5 terabytes of data. Included in the data stolen in the hack were plans to remove anonymity from Tor browsing, scraping of social media, and maybe most jarring, plans to separate Russia’s internet from that of the rest of the world. The hackers targeted one of the FSB’s contractors, SyTech, and spread the data to major news outlets following the hack. https://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/cfydsg/oakland_becomes_third_us_city_to_ban_police_use/ There is now a third city in the US joining the wave of banning facial recognition technology for municipal purposes, including law enforcement, and it is trending on Reddit. The city of Oakland passed an ordinance to ban the technology this week, joining Somerville and San Francisco. The ordinance cited not only an invasion of privacy as a reason for the ban, but also biased data bases and a lack of standards as major motivating factors in the decision. https://ca.reuters.com/article/technologyNews/idCAKCN1UH16Y-OCATC Fines continue to be levied for data breaches across the planet, and a $700 million settlement from credit-reporting company Equifax has been trending on Google News. It is the largest settlement related to a data breach that we have ever seen. Equifax experienced a major data breach in 2017, which exposed the private information of around 147 million customers. As part of the settlment, Equifax has also created a $300 million restitution fund for the customers affected. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Equifax could pay up to $700 million in proposed U.S. settlement for data breach AI adoption in Canada could benefit from a greater focus on STEM education, experts say About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada