https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/bell-partners-with-samsung-to-integrate-advanced-messaging-for-canadian-smartphone-users/396278
Bell partners with Samsung to integrate advanced messaging for Canadian smartphone users | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Leadership Mobility Wireless & IoT Bell partners with Samsung to integrate advanced messaging for Canadian smartphone users Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Published: September 5th, 2017 How we communicate with others via our mobile phones has been in constant flux since the first cellphone was created, from voice calling to text messaging to a variety of third party applications. Now, Bell Mobility is the first telecommunications company in Canada to launch Advanced Messaging, a suite of mobile messaging features previously only available through third party apps, and has partnered with Samsung to integrate the experience into its latest generation of smartphones. Advanced Messaging will allow users to send longer messages (up to 8,000 characters) and create group chats with up to 100 people, as well as transfer files like PDFs, XLS, and ZIP files, send high-resolution images and longer videos. It also boasts sent, received, and read receipts, notifications for when the other person is typing as a way to simplify real-time conversations, and combine all Advanced Messaging messages, SMS, and MMS messages into one conversation view. “Advanced Messaging is not a new concept, but we’re the first in Canada to launch it in a more user-friendly way that works right out of the box so that you don’t have to download another app or configure the device,” Jeff Gilmore, direct of product management at Bell Mobility, tells IT World Canada. “Advanced Messaging brings to our customers the features that they expect now, with all the third-party apps out there already. And this is not a competition either, we expect our customers to message in many means and across multiple platforms, like Facebook Messenger or LinkedIn’s in-house messaging, because they have lots of choices. The value of our experience, however, is that it just works, no app needed.” Related Stories Samsung Galaxy Note 8 First Look – Unboxing for Business TNW Wireless asks CRTC to compel Bell, Telus to make wholesale roaming agreements Gilmore adds that he’s proud to work with Samsung, a company that’s “a supportive and willing partner” of bringing such an experience to the market in an integrated sense. Samsung’s Note8, Galaxy S8, and S8+ will be the first mobile phones to deliver Bell’s Advanced Messaging platform, with other devices to be added in the future. The messaging platform is currently only available between Bell customers who have these phones, and like Apple’s iMessage or BlackBerry’s BBM, Advanced Messaging will come completely integrated in these phones right out of the box. “We are committed to helping accelerate and expand advanced messaging through our infrastructure and services, and thrilled to deliver this experience to our Galaxy Note8, Galaxy S8 and Galaxy S8+ customers through Bell,” Paul Brannen, COO and executive vice president of mobile devices for Samsung Canada, explains in an Aug. 30 press release. Advanced Messaging is more than just a specialized messaging experience, however. Gilmore points out that in the future, it will be able to integrate artificial intelligence (AI) and other new technologies to further enhance customer interactions. “We built a platform that, in the future, will allow you to carry on conversations on different devices as you go from smartphones to television screens, then shift from text to video,” he says. “Then you have AI, which is maturing at a tremendous rate and will change how customers interact with service providers like banks or hotels. Looking ahead, when that is integrated into our Advanced Messaging, users will be able to book a hotel through messaging, and more. It will change to how you talk to people around you as well as the companies you interact with.” Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership, Mobility, Wireless & IoT Apple, Bell Mobility, BlackBerry, Galaxy Note 8, Galaxy S8, Samsung, Samsung Galaxy S8 Containers drive evolution of Red Hat / Microsoft collaboration Kobo launches Audiobooks, chasing Canadian authors to create new content About Mandy Kovacs Mandy is a lineup editor at CTV News. A former staffer at IT World Canada, she's now contributing as a part-time podcast host on Hashtag Trending. She is a Carleton University journalism graduate with extensive experience in the B2B market. When not writing about tech, you can find her active on Twitter following political news and sports, and preparing for her future as a cat lady. Follow Follow @MandyVKovacs on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Is my iPhone snooping on my conversations? Apple’s new MacBook Air and iPad Pro bring surprsing upgrades Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Only a select few are allowed to build apps related to COVID-19, says Apple Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada