https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/sales-vs-marketing-why-cant-we-be-friends/429113
Sales vs. Marketing:  Why can't we be friends? | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Marketing Sales vs. Marketing: Why can’t we be friends? Cindy Baker @itworldca Published: March 30th, 2020 This might be a good time to work out a truce in the age-old battle between sales and marketing. There are a series of myths that keep sales and marketing from playing on the same team, said Fawn Annan, ITWC President and CMO, during a recent Closing the Gap webinar. Companies need to address the issue because it can hurt the bottom line. Webinar: Watch on demand: Ending the Fight Between Sales and Marketing The current down time due to the COVID-19 crisis provides an opportunity to work on the relationship, said Tibor Shanto, Principal with Renbor Sales Solutions Inc. “It’s hard to focus on the longer-term issues when you’re focused on the immediate quarter. It’s a good time to marshal the troops. This is the time for the radical change we’ve been talking about.” This is critical when everyone is working remotely, added Annan. During the session, Annan and Shanto faced off on why there are conflicts between sales and marketing and what can be done about it. Why sales and marketing fight The two agreed that both sales and marketing have “superiority complexes.” “Marketing people feel that salespeople act superior because they’re bringing home the bacon,” said Annan. This happens because the two sides may not understand the in-depth work within each function. Another common issue is that the two groups don’t have confidence in one another. For marketing, “a big sin is the idea that when we pass something through the funnel, it has to close,” said Annan. “That’s the wrong way to go about it.” Marketing doesn’t say where its leads are on the buying journey. A marketing qualified lead (MQL) is like a business card, she explained. “It doesn’t mean they’re ready to hear about a solution and sign on the bottom line.” On the other side of the coin, sales may feel like marketing is irrelevant, said Shanto. “Sales believes that only about two per cent of marketing leads convert and they can do better on their own. Sales will ask why they would spend time on something that doesn’t get them a good yield.” Conflict also occurs when both teams try to take credit for a successful deal. “Sales sees that marketing takes more of the credit than it deserves in bringing the client on board,” said Shanto. “I see that as marketing getting excited that campaigns and strategy are paying off,” countered Annan. How to improve the sales and marketing relationship Improving the relationship has to start at the top, said Annan. “It comes down to aligning the vision with the CEO and making sure it goes all down the line.” After that, it comes down to great communication, she said. Annan suggested that marketing and sales should get together weekly to develop strategies to deal with accounts that are struggling. Shanto noted that some companies are even folding sales and marketing together into one group under a Chief Revenue Officer. As well, the two teams need to develop a better appreciation of what each one does. “We need the equivalent of a ‘take your kids to work day’, so they can see the challenges,” said Shanto. “It would be a learning experience for a salesperson to follow a marketing person around and vice versa.” “At the end of the day, we need to stop looking at it like two separate limbs,” said Shanto. “Now is the time to do it.” Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace, Marketing Closing the Gap, lead generation, MQL, shanto Hashtag Trending - Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today - A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more About Cindy Baker Cindy Baker has over 20 years of experience in IT-related fields in the public and private sectors, as a lawyer and strategic advisor. She is a former broadcast journalist, currently working as a consultant, freelance writer and editor. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada