https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-uber-loses-london-license-ebay-sells-stubhub-a-contract-for-the-web/424365
Hashtag Trending - Uber loses London license, eBay sells StubHub, a Contract for the Web | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Uber loses London license, eBay sells StubHub, a Contract for the Web Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: November 26th, 2019 Uber loses its license to operate in the city of London, England, eBay says it’s selling its StubHub ticketing business to Viagogo in a $4B deal, and Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, has officially launched the Contract for the Web, a set of principles designed to “fix” the internet and prevent us from sliding into a “digital dystopia” Transport for London, the public sector regulator for transportation, says Uber will not be granted a new license to operate in the city after repeated safety failures. The announcement came Monday morning, and Uber quickly responded by saying that they plan to appeal the decision. Because of the appeal, nothing will change for passengers and drivers who use the Uber app for the time being. Uber operates in 18 different cities in the U.K. London is one of Uber’s top five markets globally and it has about 45,000 drivers in the city. Overall, there are roughly 126,000 licensed private hire and black cabs in the country’s capital. LinkedIn users commenting on the trending news story are pointing to Europe’s other on-demand taxi startups like Bolt, suggesting they have a better alignment with the city’s and the customers’ needs. Trending on Twitter is the news that eBay is selling StubHub to ticket seller viagogo for $4 billion in cash. The deal comes after a review that eBay undertook months ago. In March, eBay said it was looking at selling StubHub and its classified ads business to focus on its main online sales site. People online are pointing out how the addition of StubHub will allow viagogo to sell tickets in more than 70 countries and give buyers access to a wider selection of tickets. And it’s worth noting that eBay bought StubHub in 2007 for $310 million. And lastly, trending on Reddit – a set of principles designed to “fix” the internet and prevent people from sliding into a “digital dystopia” is gaining serious traction. Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, on Monday officially launched the Contract for the Web, a list of nine core principles for governments, companies, and individuals to adhere to. Berners-Lee says these principles are needed to improve internet access and affordability, in addition to the civil discourse that takes place around it. As of this recording, the initiative has received the backing of over 150 organizations, including tech companies such as Microsoft, Google, Twitter, Facebook and DuckDuckGo, as well as non-profit groups such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Zoho revamps document management, says Canadian data centre coming in 2020 BC firm criticized by Canadian privacy commissioners in Facebook-Cambridge Analytica scandal About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada