https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/aws-is-making-moves-in-canada-but-so-are-its-critics-as-protests-disrupt-summit/422561
AWS is making moves in Canada, but so are its critics as protests disrupt summit | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. AWS Canada country manager Eric Gales takes the stage at the AWS Summit in Toronto. Photo submitted by AWS. Cloud Infrastructure Public Sector AWS is making moves in Canada, but so are its critics as protests disrupt summit Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: October 7th, 2019 Amazon Web Services made it clear last week at its AWS Summit in Toronto that it’s serious about its ongoing push across Canada, and based on the number of people in attendance, thousands of Canadian customers and partners are happy to go along for the ride. More than 4,500 people attended the Toronto summit event Oct. 4 – that’s double last year’s total – one of several summits hosted by AWS, where company executives, partners and customers come together to learn and collaborate, and AWS’ growing presence in Canada was touted. AWS Canada country manager Eric Gales cited the more than 10,000 full time Amazon employees across the country, in addition to the “tens of thousands” of customers dotting the provinces. The company’s growing presence in Canada has warranted the introduction of a third AWS Availability Zone (AZ) in the country’s central region near Montreal, bringing the total number of computing power hubs to 22. QUICK FACT: One of Canada’s largest post-secondary institutions, Humber College, recently selected AWS as its strategic cloud provider through premier AWS partner Onica. Humber is also becoming an AWS Academy Institution and AWS Certification Testing Centre. But what’s really impressed Joshua Burgin, technical advisor to the senior vice-president at AWS, is how organizations, specifically governments, traditionally known for sticking with the status quo when it comes to their IT infrastructure, are rapidly building new applications through microservices and taking greater advantage of cloud computing. “That’s what’s been amazing to me,” Burgin told IT World Canada during a break in the action at last week’s summit. “Serverless, containers, it’s not hype. These are the waves of the future and they fulfil the promise of the cloud. You don’t have to think about your servers or your infrastructure. You don’t have to do the undifferentiated heavy lifting, we do that for you. But you’re also not forced down a certain path,” he explained. During his opening keynote, Gales pointed to AWS’ latest contract with the Canadian federal government to host its Protected B workloads, such as medical information, information protected by solicitor-client or litigation privilege, or received in confidence from other government departments and agencies. Amazon products ranked based on how much they’re discussed on Twitter. Photo by Alex Coop. Even Canada’s oil and gas sector is betting big on AWS. Calgary’s TC Energy has migrated about 90 per cent to the AWS cloud, and Cenovus became the first upstream oil company in Canada – upstream meaning a company that’s extracting oil from the ground – to announce their move to AWS. And the value of cloud and AWS software hasn’t alluded the rest of the world. According to Gales, as of May 2019, more than 200,000 people hold active AWS certifications, a number that rose by 80 per cent year-over-year. “We believe that our biggest contribution is to invest as much as we possibly can into skills and enablement for you,” he said. Organized protests target AWS’ relationship with ICE While Amazon executives and customers took to the stage, one by one, more than a dozen protesters demanded that Amazon cut any ties it may have with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). Protestors were scattered across the auditorium and disrupted the morning’s main presentation multiple times, often chanting “No tech for ICE!” and demanded Burgin to provide a response. Security and police escorted protesters out of the auditorium. This is not the first AWS Summit to be met with protests. In July, hundreds of protesters made the same demands during the tech giant’s summit in New York City. AWS’ Joshua Burgin is doing his best to keep the presentation going. But there are another 4 or 5 protestors voicing the same concerns as the previous people who have been escorted out. #AWSSummit pic.twitter.com/AF03IkU3Wo — Alex Coop (@ItsJustAlexCoop) October 3, 2019 When asked to provide comment about the protests, Burgin said it wasn’t something he could comment on. In June 2018, AWS employees circulated an internal letter demanding that Amazon stop working with big data company Palantir and to take a stand against ICE, according to reporting from Business Insider. Palantir runs its software on Amazon’s cloud. The letter also asked the company’s leaders to stop providing the company’s Rekognition facial recognition software to police. Matthew Bourke of ICE’s Office of Public Affairs told amNewYork that ICE doesn’t have a specific contract with Amazon for facial recognition technology. ICE does, however, have a contract with Four Points Technology – a data centre and Infrastructure-as-a-Service firm and AWS partner – to use Amazon Web Services for unspecified cloud storage solutions. The four contracts are for “other computer-related services”, according to Bourke. Correction: A previous version of this article indicated that AWS has more than 10,000 full time employees in Canada. There are actually 10,000 Amazon employees in Canada. Full time employees for AWS are not broken out. IT World Canada apologizes for the error. Cloud, Infrastructure, Public Sector AWS, postmedia How strategic is your network? Hashtag Trending - Ransomware cripples hospitals; new Amazon tablets; Sonos Speaker subscription? About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada