https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-massive-cryptocurrency-theft-failing-facial-recognition-ubers-ipo/417886
Hashtag Trending - Massive cryptocurrency theft, failing facial recognition, Uber's IPO | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Massive cryptocurrency theft, failing facial recognition, Uber’s IPO Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Published: May 9th, 2019 A massive multi-million dollar cryptocurrency theft, failing facial recognition technology, and Uber’s highly-anticipated IPO. From Reddit, we begin with a massive data breach affecting Binance, the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchange. More than $40 million dollars worth of cryptocurrency – which is over 7,000 bitcoin – has been stolen after hackers used phishing, viruses, and other techniques to breach the exchange. Binance says the hackers were able to get their hands on user information, including two-factor authentication codes. The theft hit about two per cent of its total holdings … but Binance says its secure asset fund for users will cover the losses. Also from Reddit, new figures from the United Kingdom reveal that facial recognition technology has misidentified members of the public as potential criminals in a whopping 96 per cent of face scans so far in London. The Metropolitan Police have been testing out the tech since 2016 to help them catch criminals … but critics say it’s a waste of money and a violation of privacy. Police figures say only 8 criminals have been apprehended as a direct result of this tech … and admit at least one facial recognition camera had a 100 per cent failure rate. And last but not least from LinkedIn, today’s the day for one of the most anticipated initial public offerings to hit the stock market in 2019. Uber is going public today and is valued at more than $90 billion US dollars. With that, embattled company founder Travis Kalanick could stand to make $8 billion … while early investor Jeff Bezos could see his 3 per cent share be worth more than $400 million. Uber drivers across the US spent yesterday walking off the job and protesting, saying their wages have been cut ahead of the IPO. Careers bitcoin, cryptocurrency, data breach, facial recognition, hashtag trending, podcast, security, Uber Why letting Alexa spy on everything you say could be good for your health Cost of security breaches to Canadian firms studied averaged over $9 million a year: Report About Mandy Kovacs Mandy is a lineup editor at CTV News. A former staffer at IT World Canada, she's now contributing as a part-time podcast host on Hashtag Trending. She is a Carleton University journalism graduate with extensive experience in the B2B market. When not writing about tech, you can find her active on Twitter following political news and sports, and preparing for her future as a cat lady. Follow Follow @MandyVKovacs on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Hashtag Trending – Gates says US botched COVID-19 response; Snopes overwhelmed; Plague Inc. flips the script Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada