https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/scotiabanks-plato-team-shows-its-serious-about-technology-first-approach-with-open-source-release/407562
Scotiabank's 'PLATO' team shows its serious about technology-first approach with open source release | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Emerging Tech Infrastructure Scotiabank’s ‘PLATO’ team shows its serious about technology-first approach with open source release Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: August 8th, 2018 Most customers taking the stage at Google Cloud Next 2018 were sharing their uses cases for the public cloud infrastructure, but Justin Arbuckle, senior vice-president of Platform Organization (PLATO) at Toronto-based Scotiabank didn’t stop there. Not only did Arbuckle detail how his team of engineers has used its public cloud deployments to completely transform how Scotiabank builds new applications and integrates them into business processes, he also announced the bank’s first open source software release to Github. Initializer is the first open source module of many to come from Scotiabank, each module a new piece of the bank’s own Accelerator product that serves as its own integrated development pipeline, which integrates the required security controls and approvals for code as they move through various stages of production. With the Github code dump, Scotiabank becomes the first Canadian bank to release open source software. Internationally, it follows in the footsteps of Deutsche Bank, which released Waltz to GitHub in February. That tool scours multiple systems to provide a complete accounting of a complicated IT environment (par for the course at large banks.) The release is making good on Scotiabank CEO Brian Porter’s vision of the storied organization as a technology company that happens to do banking, Arbuckle says. “It’s to attract the best developers in the world and help us solve our engineering problems,” he says. “If you want a tough engineering problem, take a 186-year-old bank and try to connect it to all these modern applications.” Scotiabank’s PLATO team is growing fast, with 27 open positions currently posted to the jobs page. By posting to GitHub, PLATO essentially expands its team to include every other developer in the world that’s facing similar challenges. The implicit bargain of the open source community is that developers that take the code and evolve it for their own purposes will share that added capability back with the community. “Modern software companies take advantage of a global community of developers,” Arbuckle says. “PLATO styles itself as a software company inside the bank.” Its Accelerator product, until this point entirely an internal tool for Scotiabank, is a build and deployment engine. It pulls together the coding languages and resources required to develop software and bakes in the Scrum and Agile approaches often used in development to create templates for developers called initializers. The goal is to get internal partners to convert to PLATO’s dogma of behaving more like a software company. To accomplish it, Arbuckle will preach to internal partners about the business advantages of building with the new approach. For example, Accelerators has cut the time required to prove that new services meet the bank’s control objectives from one month to just one hour. A Scotiabank roadmap for its open source release plans. (Provided by Scotiabank). Not surprisingly, Arbuckle is willing to get philosophical about PLATO as well, saying he chose Google Next 2018 as the stage for his announcement because he likes what he hears from the Silicon Valley giant’s leadership. By investing in new services such as Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) On-Prem and investing in cloud services offerings that help modernize applications, Google is showing that it cares more about the “how” of cloud computing than the “where.” “Cloud is a method, not a location,” he says. “So when you hear cloud phrases like private cloud, public cloud, hybrid cloud, consider are we talking about where we are moving to or the value of the work that we’re doing?” If a bank simply accomplishes a project of cloud migration and does not change how it works, the migration was pointless. It must also change its approaches to development so applications can be updated continuously instead of quarterly, and the benefits of the cloud can be wrought. Such as a common data layer that is supporting Scotiabank’s business around the world. With Accelerator going open source, Arbuckle hopes to achieve more results like this. As other organizations chase digital transformation, more developers will be seeking ways to wedge the modern development workflow into legacy processes. Initializer provides a roadmap to make it happen. “Anyone that works for anything other than a unicorn company has that problem, because you can’t assume everything is consistent with modern capabilities,” Arbuckle says. More pieces of Accelerator will be released to open source in the near future. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Emerging Tech, Infrastructure FinTech, Google Cloud Platform, Google Next, open source code, public cloud, Scotiabank Cyber Security Today - U.S. healthcare institution stung, patch your MikroTik router and update Drupal Cyber Security Today: WannaCry ransomware, botnets in Twitter and security awareness training About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content A new Google Cloud Platform region to come to Toronto U of T launches FinTech boot camp Scotiabank source code, credentials found open on GitHub: news report AppDirect announces a partnership with Google, among other announcements at AppDirect Engage Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada