https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-feb-22-2018-fake-news-worries-upgrade-these-apps-and-dont-get-gassed/415244
Cyber Security Today: Feb. 22, 2018 — Fake news worries, upgrade these apps and don't get gassed | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today: Feb. 22, 2018 — Fake news worries, upgrade these apps and don’t get gassed Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: February 22nd, 2019 Worries about fake news in the U.S., an international committee to hold a hearing on disinformation, upgrade these three applications and don’t get gassed. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Friday February 22nd. To hear the podcast click on the arrow below: The 2020 U.S. presidential election campaign has started now that a number of Democrats say they’re looking for their party’s presidential nomination. And, disappointingly, already there’s evidence of disinformation campaigns on social media. That’s according to the site Politico.com, which asked a tech company to do an analysis of recent Twitter messages about candidates. One of the false messages alleges that a blackface doll appeared on a kitchen cabinet in the background of a senator’s New Year’s Eve Instagram livestream. Some of the negative messages appear to be from automated accounts. No one knows yet who’s behind them. Governments are becoming increasingly worried about the effect on democracy of disinformation, which is why politicians from nine countries — including Canada, France and the U.K. — have formed what they call an international grand committee into the problem. On Wednesday they invited the heads of 10 tech companies, including Facebook CEO Mark Zukerberg, Google CEO Sundar Pichai, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey and Apple CEO Tim Cook to Ottawa on May 28 for a meeting. How many will show up is a question. Some may send lower executives, fearing the hearing may turn into an inquisition. When the committee held its first hearing in November in London, Zuckerberg sent a senior vice-president instead. Users of the Windows file compression utility WinRAR are being warned to update to the latest version because of a serious bug. It could allow a hacker to take control of your computer. WinRAR helps shrink huge files for things like archiving or uploading. However, security company Check Point Software has discovered a flaw dates back to 2005 and has been in the software ever since. According to WinRAR’s website, 500,000 people around the world use the software. Updating to the latest version will ensure the bug can’t be exploited. Speaking of updates, those of you who run either the Drupal or WordPress content management systems should think seriously of updating your websites. The latest versions patch critical flaws. Finally, here’s some misinformation going around Facebook: When you go to a gas station use the Bluetooth detector on your smart phone to detect if the pump has a phony Bluetooth wireless credit card skimmer for stealing your card data. If it detects a device with a bunch of random numbers and letters, it must be phony. Not true, says security vendor Sophos. First, a device named with a bunch of numbers and letters isn’t necessarily crooked. It could be the video game being used by a kid in the next car. Second, criminals are unlikely to use a Bluetooth transmitter because of its short range. You’re wasting your time trying to detect criminality with Bluetooth. It’s better to just look at the card reader — in any business — and see if it looks like it’s been tampered with. If you’re really worried, pay with cash. As always, if you need more background there are links in the text version of this podcast on ITWorldCanada.com. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security ., cyber security today, podcasts, US presidential election Hashtag Trending - Advertisers leaving YouTube; Facebook pauses location history; Apple getting less innovative B.C. privacy commissioner launches awareness campaign for firms About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada