https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-tech-execs-react-to-daca-repeal-google-hiring-in-china/396289
Hashtag Trending - Tech execs react to DACA repeal, Google hiring in China | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Leadership Mobility Privacy & Security Public Sector Hashtag Trending – Tech execs react to DACA repeal, Google hiring in China Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Published: September 6th, 2017 Tech executives speak out against Donald Trump’s move to end DACA, Google is hiring artificial intelligence talent in China, and Lenovo fesses up to spyware. From Twitter, technology company executives are reacting to this weekend’s announcement that the Trump administration will be shutting down Obama’s “Dreamers” immigration program, officially called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. The Dreamers program enables nearly 800,000 undocumented individuals who came to the US as children to continue to live, study, and work in the US. Hundreds of tech leaders have spoken out, including Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, Apple CEO Tim Cook, Google CEO Sundar Pichai, Netflix CEO Reed Hastings, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey, and more. They say they stand by diversity and call on the US government to preserve the program. From Reddit today, Google is hiring for at least four artificial intelligence and machine learning positions in China, which is notable considering that the tech giant has been blocked in China for more than seven years. The positions would be based in Beijing, Shanghai, and Guangzhou. China is aiming to become the world’s AI leader by 2030 thanks to a state-led development plan announced this summer. And according to Goldman Sachs, China’s AI technology is quickly catching up to the US. It looks like Google is trying to capitalize on the AI talent being fostered in the country. And lastly, from Product Hunt, Lenovo has settled its Federal Trade Commission charges that accused it of selling more than 750,000 laptop devices between August 2014 and June 2015 with pre-installed spyware. The spyware, called VisualDiscovery, has allegedly been secretly collecting visual data on customers’ web browsing habits and using it for advertising purposes. It kept consumer’s personal info like log-in credentials, social security numbers, bank account information, medical information, and emails. The laptop maker will pay $3.5 million to 32 states in moves that mark the FTC’s continued clampdown on companies that invade customer privacy. Artificial Intelligence, Leadership, Mobility, Privacy & Security, Public Sector Amazon, Apple, artificial intelligence, China, diversity, Donald Trump, Facebook, Federal Trade Commission, Google, hashtag trending, immigration, Jack Dorsey, Jeff Bezos, Lenovo, Microsoft, Netflix, podcasts, Satya Nadella, spyware, Sundar Pichai, Tim Cook, twitter Kobo launches Audiobooks, chasing Canadian authors to create new content Intel targets binge watchers and VR enthusiasts in soft PC market About Mandy Kovacs Mandy is a lineup editor at CTV News. A former staffer at IT World Canada, she's now contributing as a part-time podcast host on Hashtag Trending. She is a Carleton University journalism graduate with extensive experience in the B2B market. When not writing about tech, you can find her active on Twitter following political news and sports, and preparing for her future as a cat lady. Follow Follow @MandyVKovacs on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada