https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/meet-your-customer-experience-officer-itwc-report-reveals-the-new-business-role-of-the-cio/421128
Meet your customer experience officer:  ITWC report reveals the new business role of the CIO | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Leadership Meet your customer experience officer: ITWC report reveals the new business role of the CIO Cindy Baker @itworldca Published: August 23rd, 2019 CIOs have made the move beyond the role of IT Manager to become strategic business influencers, especially when it comes to the job of transforming the customer experience. That’s one of the key findings of IT World Canada’s 2019 CanadianCIO Census report. “Over the past 4 years, CIOs have established themselves as members of the strategic leadership team. No longer a plumber, the CIO is actively engaged in executive decisions,” said Jim Love, ITWC CIO. The survey results show that CIOs are exerting more influence at the most senior levels of their organizations. They’re now being invited to executive meetings most of the time. Thirty-nine per cent of Census participants said they’re always involved in these meetings. Download: CanadianCIO Census 2019 report Canadian CIOs from businesses of all sizes responded to the 2019 survey, which was sponsored by OutSystems. The report also uncovers a shift in the priorities and challenges that CIOs are facing today. Innovation and customer experience emerging as top priorities Security continues to be the top issue for CIOs, both in day-to-day operations and over the next 12 months. Uptime and compliance also require constant attention, but business innovation is emerging as a big day-to-day concern. It shows that the idea of innovation has permeated the business culture more than ever, said Love. “Creating new business streams requires innovation,” said Nuno Borges, Director of Customer Research with OutSystems. “Standing still is not an option. This is why CIOs are more involved in these areas.” Indeed, 53 per cent of the CIOs said they’re already feeling the impact of digital transformation. While the report shows that the majority of IT budgets is spent on “keeping the lights on,” 17 per cent is now dedicated to transformation, the highest percentage seen in a CanadianCIO Census. Webinar: “The CIO as Business Linchpin in the Customer Experience Age” Customer experience is now seen as a top priority for the next 12 months, well ahead of disaster recovery. “All underlying technology nowadays is moving to the cloud and is not a big differentiating factor,” said Borges. “Customer experience is where the business is coming from. Businesses need to improve loyalty and make sure the customers have a frictionless experience. That is what will make the difference.” The biggest challenge facing CIOs today is not what you think it is In the past, if you asked CIOs about the greatest challenge of leadership, they would have said budget, said Love. According to this year’s Census, almost half of CIOs see the corporate culture as a major challenge to digital transformation. “That’s a huge shift which reflects the strategic role of the CIO,” said Love. “CIOs are increasingly responsible for changing the culture.” Legacy systems and the talent shortage were also identified as impediments to transformation. Canadian CIOs want to hire staff for application development and support, business analysis and big data, however, these are also the most difficult skills to find. The demand isn’t going away, said Borges. “There has to be a shift from native development to use tools that allow you to innovate faster.” Overall, the report demonstrates that the issues and priorities that CIOS must address are becoming increasingly complex and diverse. “CIOs need to be drivers for change and motivate people to holistically change what the business can do,” said Borges. “If they can do that, they will thrive in the market.” Download the CanadianCIO Census 2019 report Register for webinar: “The CIO as Business Linchpin in the Customer Experience Age” Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Leadership CanadianCIO, CIO, customer experience, CX, survey VMware goes on a shopping spree, scoops up Carbon Black and Pivotal for a combined $4.8B Hashtag Trending - Bad location data botches court cases; unsafe items on Amazon; YouTube pulls more than 200 channels About Cindy Baker Cindy Baker has over 20 years of experience in IT-related fields in the public and private sectors, as a lawyer and strategic advisor. She is a former broadcast journalist, currently working as a consultant, freelance writer and editor. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content How Canada can end the false sense of digital identity security COVID-19 crisis could spur on digital transformation Nokia restructures tech leadership to eliminate group chief information technology role Solving common enterprise data challenges takes a collaborative approach Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada