https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-facebook-ad-policy-upset-gender-neutral-emojis-adobe-accounts-exposed/423411
Hashtag Trending – Facebook ad policy upset, gender neutral emojis, Adobe accounts exposed | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Facebook ad policy upset, gender neutral emojis, Adobe accounts exposed Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: October 30th, 2019 Facebook workers decry the company’s ad policy, the latest Apple iOS offers gender-neutral emojis, and Adobe faces backlash for leaving millions of Adobe accounts exposed. Facebook employees aren’t mincing words: Letting politicians post ads with false claims on Facebook is not representative of their values. That’s according to the roughly 250 Facebook employees who penned a letter — obtained by The New York Times — to CEO Mark Zuckerberg objecting to a recent decision that gives politicians free rein. It’s just the latest example of a tech company’s employees pushing back against the brand. Last year, Google workers walked off the job protesting payouts to executives accused of sexual misconduct, while Amazon’s employees, for months, have been demanding for climate change action and improved working conditions at its fulfillment centres. The emoji library is growing by almost 170. The latest iOS update includes 138 new gender-neutral forms, as well as 30 combinations of people holding hands with various skin tone. It also includes an otter, a skunk, a wheelchair, more. People have quickly taken to Twitter to share their opinions. The gender-neutral forms have definitely been a hit, but a lot of people are expressing their joy over the otter and yawn emojis. I swear those already existed … And lastly, LinkedIn is still buzzing about the news that the data of roughly 7.5 million Adobe customers was visible to anyone with a web browser. Bloomberg is reporting that the data cache wasn’t protected, allowing anyone access to client information if they knew how to find it. While the exposed data wasn’t very valuable, they could be used to launch better-crafted phishing campaigns against customers whose data was exposed. A researcher reported his findings to Adobe on October 19 and the company secured the database on the same day. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Privacy czars call on governments to recognize privacy as a fundamental right Canadian municipalities are on an island fighting ransomware, and hackers are barely trying About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada