https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ridesharing-services-could-soon-replace-personal-vehicles-according-to-accenture-study/425742
Ridesharing services could soon replace personal vehicles, according to Accenture study | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Emerging Tech Mobility Ridesharing services could soon replace personal vehicles, according to Accenture study Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: January 7th, 2020 A future in which personal vehicles are no longer popular and ridesharing services rule the road is becoming increasingly plausible, a new study indicates. A recent study from Accenture, which surveyed more than 1,000 consumers in the U.S., showed that almost two out of every three people (63 per cent) who use ridesharing services would be willing to give up their car entirely and commit to using ridesharing services exclusively. While these statistics are specific to the American market, the popularity of those services in Canada has also made great strides in recent years. Statista says that as of 2018, Uber had already surpassed the use of taxis in all age groups below the age of 45; not including any other ridesharing services. That willingness to switch seems to be a result of satisfaction with the services, as 92 per cent expressed a strong level of satisfaction and 93 per cent said they expect their usage to either maintain level or increase. Despite this, there exists a surprising lack of brand loyalty, as 52 per cent said they have jumped between ridesharing apps. “Satisfaction with ride-hailing is high, due in large part to reliable pickup and drop-off times, high satisfaction with drivers, and ease of booking and payments,” said Robin Murdoch, Accenture’s leader of global software and platform practices. “To keep customers loyal, ride-hailing companies need to have better control over riders’ personal data and offer more personalized and engaging user experiences.” As Murdoch noted, customers’ need for secure data is one of the biggest factors, with 69 per cent listing it as an important factor. Uber is currently available in Canada in Calgary, Edmonton, Gatineau, Halifax, Hamilton, Kingston, Kitchener-Waterloo, Lethbridge, London, Montreal, Niagara Region, Ottawa, Quebec City, Red Deer, Saskatoon, Toronto, Windsor, and Winnipeg. Its biggest competitor, Lyft, is currently available in Ajax, Brampton, Hamilton, Mississauga, Newmarket, Oshawa, Ottawa, Richmond Hill, and Toronto. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Emerging Tech, Mobility Lyft, ridesharing, Uber Hashtag Trending - CES, Apple gets roasted, outdated IT CES 2020: AMD's new 64-core Threadripper processor, new graphics card, and Ryzen 4000 processor About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Uber officially opens its new engineering hub in Toronto Canadian, U.S. man admit trying to blackmail Uber, LinkedIn after data thefts Lyft to offer discounted rides to get Toronto and Ottawa voters to polls this election Hashtag Trending – Facebook’s new business venture, IT safeguards from Elections Canada, Uber’s new safety system Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada