https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cisco-leadership-undergoes-another-shuffle-involving-amy-chang-and-david-goeckeler/428343
Two top executives exit Cisco | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Amy Chang, Cisco’s executive vice-president and general manager of collaboration, on stage during Cisco's partner summit in Las Vegas. Photo by Cisco. Infrastructure Leadership Cisco leadership undergoes another shuffle involving Amy Chang and David Goeckeler Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: March 10th, 2020 Cisco is undergoing another major leadership shuffle. David Goeckeler, networking and security head of the company was recently appointed as the new chief executive officer of Western Digital, while recent reporting from The Information indicates that Amy Chang, executive vice-president and general manager of Cisco’s Team Collaboration Group is taking a leave of absence. Amy Chang, Cisco. Photo from Cisco. Chang, who joined Cisco in its 2018 acquisition of collaboration software startup Accompany – Chang was Accompany’s founder and CEO – is taking a leave of absence for an unspecified period of time, Cisco CEO Chuck Robbins said in an email obtained by The Information. Chang has spent the past two years leading Cisco’s collaboration business. Sri Srinivasan, the current senior vice-president and general manager of Team Collaboration Group is replacing Chang in the meantime until her possible return. Chang’s leave of absence also follows a challenging financial quarter for her division. Revenue for the product category was down eight per cent year-over-year in the three months ending Jan. 25. The product category includes Chang’s collaboration unit. Goeckeler led Cisco’s security business prior to becoming the leader of the company’s networking and security and will be succeed by Todd Nightingale, head of Cisco Meraki. Goeckeler succeeds Steve Milligan at Western Digital, who previously announced his intended retirement. Milligan will remain with Western Digital in an advisory role until September 2020 to ensure a smooth transition, the company said. “David is a transformative leader with an exceptional track record of driving highly profitable, core businesses at scale while innovating successful business strategies that expanded into new markets and generated new revenue sources,” said Matthew Massengill, chairman of the board in a press release. “With experience as a software engineer as well as running large semiconductor development projects, his breadth of technology expertise, business acumen and history of building and operating world-class organizations make him the right person to lead Western Digital in a world increasingly driven by applications and data. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Leadership Cisco, Cisco Collaboration, leadership changes, WebEx, western digital Hashtag Trending - Facebook facing massive fines; Amazon to sell cashier-less tech; Wrong place at the wrong time Hashtag Trending - Cleaning your smartphone; Clever social media use in China; Quantum computing breakthrough About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cisco commits $225 million to COVID-19 response Suddenly working from home and need a solution that works? Here are some options In response to COVID-19, Cisco is handing out free 90-day Webex business licenses RSA Conference: Democratize security, says Cisco official, and McAfee urges work on quantum-resistant solutions Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada