https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/warning-ransomware-may-be-copying-all-credentials-on-victims-networks/425835
Warning: Ransomware may be copying all credentials on victims' networks | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by PeopleImages | Getty Images Privacy & Security Warning: Ransomware may be copying all credentials on victims’ networks Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: January 9th, 2020 It’s bad enough that infosec pros have to worry about ransomware scrambling or stealing data — or both. But a recent report argues organizations need to pay more attention to another capability: Ransomware that harvests credentials across the network, allowing an attacker to penetrate the enterprise as often as they want. The possibility was raised this week by security reporter Brian Krebs, who in a column warned that the usual remediation procedure after an attack of changing passwords for all user accounts that have access to any email system, servers and desktop works on the network may not be enough. Attackers are also siphoning off every password stored on every device a network as well. Krebs came to this conclusion after looking into the November 2019 Ryuk ransomware attack on Wisconsin-based Virtual Care Provider Inc. (VCPI). The provider manages the IT systems for some 110 clients that serve approximately 2,400 nursing homes in 45 U.S. states. A cybersecurity firm that sometimes intercepts communications between ransomware gangs told Krebs that before the VCPI ransomware was launched the attackers first infected the provider with the Emotet malware, which includes the Trickbot password-stealing module. According to logs seen by the security firm and apparently lifted from VCPI endpoints, credentials copied by the attackers included those used by company employees to log in at more than 300 Web sites and services, including identity and password management platforms Auth0 and LastPass, multiple personal and business banking portals, Microsoft Office365 accounts, cloud-based payroll management services, commercial phone, Internet and power services, state and local government competitive bidding portals and Amazon, Facebook, LinkedIn, Microsoft, Twitter accounts. “Moral of the story,” writes Krebs: “Companies that experience a ransomware attack — or for that matter any type of equally invasive malware infestation — should assume that all credentials stored anywhere on the local network (including those saved inside Web browsers and password managers) are compromised and need to be changed.” And they need to be protected with multi-factor authentication. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security passwords, postmedia, security strategies Microsoft announces Canadian Azure Availability Zone, and Azure ExpressRoute in Vancouver Hashtag Trending - Political ads on Facebook, TikTok vulnerability, awful photoshop job goes viral About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Think multi-factor authentication can’t be hacked? Think again Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada