https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-classrooms-ban-phones-facebook-rethinking-likes-airbnb-versus-rental-market/421480
Hashtag Trending – Classrooms ban phones, Facebook rethinking 'likes', Airbnb versus rental market | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Classrooms ban phones, Facebook rethinking ‘likes’, Airbnb versus rental market Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: September 4th, 2019 Ontario says no to cellphones in classrooms, Facebook isn’t sure about its own ‘like’ button, and a new study sheds light on Airbnb’s impact on Toronto’s rental market. While several schools have implemented a similar policy, Ontario is setting a new provincial standard starting November 4th to ban cellphones from the classroom. The new policy states students can only use their phones during teaching time if it’s for education purposes, or for special needs and medical purposes. The news has been shared across hundreds of accounts on LinkedIn – most are happy with the move, but a few suggest this is actually a step backward, and that it removes another compelling way to learn in the classroom, and that the new policy will be next to impossible to enforce. TechCrunch’s reporting on Facebook’s decision to consider removing the number of ‘likes’ on posts has turned heads across social media. Facebook’s slashing of its popularity metrics follows in the footsteps of Instagram, which is testing the removal of the number of likes photos get in seven countries, including Canada. As of this recording, Facebook did not share any details or results from its Instagram Like hiding tests. Will removing ‘like’ counts put less pressure on users and encourage them to share more freely and frequently? Will it improve mental health among young people who use the platform and become obsessed with the numbers? We’ll just have to wait and see. And lastly, a new research study that says approximately 5,300 short-term rentals could be returned to Toronto’s housing stock if the city’s new short term rental bylaws were to take effect is garnering a lot of chatter online. A planning professor who holds a Canada Research Chair in Urban Governance, has led academic studies of the impact of Airbnb in several cities, including Toronto. His analysis on Toronto is part of the information being presented to the Local Planning Appeal Tribunal, where Airbnb is making its case against the new bylaws. There are currently more than 21,000 Airbnb listings in Toronto. Reactions to the study are mixed – many are happy about the potential for the city’s housing supply to grow at the cost of thousands of Airbnb listings going out of business. The LPAT hearings, as of this recording, were still ongoing. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace Airbnb, hashtag trending, podcasts Thousands of Supermicro servers vulnerable to remote attack, says security vendor Cyber Security Today - Data breaches, not so smart devices, privacy learning games for kids and cloned debit cards About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada