https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cisos-have-to-work-closer-with-business-says-gartner-analyst/418738
CISOs have to work closer with business, says Gartner analyst | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security CISOs have to work closer with business, says Gartner analyst Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: June 5th, 2019 When an industry analyst gives a talk on the ‘State of Data Security,’ it’s hard to expect sunshine. At the Gartner IT Symposium in Toronto on Tuesday, David Mahdi saw a lot of overcast. “We still need a lot of work, the industry still needs [to spread] awareness,” he said in a pre-conference interview. “The biggest thing that needs to happen is more broad board awareness of the concepts of data security governance … We need business units to understand these things (data) are assets and liabilities, and they do have a responsibility” to help protect them. He added that the responsibility of infosec leaders is to spread that message to business units: Technology isn’t going to solve the problems of cyber security. It will be solved by people across the enterprise. Mahdi is senior research director in Gartner Canada’s systems, security and risk group. Related Articles Five cyber security trends to prepare for: Gartner STRATFORD, Ont. -- Business leaders are finally getting the importance cyber security, but that doesn’t mean working with management is... November 6th, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Gartner’s 5 major tech trends that blur the line between man and machine Hailing an Uber or Lyft might one day be the old-fashioned way of getting around. Instead, passengers might head to... September 7th, 2018 Gartner @Gartner_inc His main message is aimed at CISOs: “Too many times people start at the product stage first” to meet cyber threats. “And that”s one of the big reasons why we’ve been failing as a [security] community.” For example, if during a security audit a problem is found, infosec leaders often follow the auditor’s recommendation to solve it with technology, with the blessing of management. That quickly meets compliance. But, Mahdi added, it doesn’t meet the problem of a business unit later signing up for a cloud service without the knowledge of IT. Why? Because the company didn’t have a comprehensive governance strategy. “If the CISO is successful the CMO will say, ‘Hey, before we subscribe to this cloud platform for marketing I’ll talk to the CISO,'” Mahdi said. Which is why he says before buying technology the CISO has to make the organization understand what data it has, what compliance regulations have to be followed, what business unit are linked to that data. Only after understanding the business units’ needs and working with them on how various solutions should the CISO start spending. The only way a CISO can get insight into an organization’s practices is to work with it, he emphasized. “The CISO can’t just push policies down on everybody. There has to be a partnership between them, but there also has to be a continuous flow of requirements gathering and guidance and recommendations. The CISO needs to be an advisor, needs to provide guidance and needs to provide options to business units.” In addition to first making sure the organization has a business, governance, compliance and IT strategy, the infosec leader has to understand its risk tolerance, Mahdi said. These should be more than a sentence, he added. He favours the creation of risk appetite statements for each project (for example, “if we create this app to start a loyalty program we need to open up our risk appetite because it will mean holding on to more personal data. It will also mean spending more to protect the data.”) “Have risk management leaders construct better, more business-centric statements that aren’t technical that highlight the risks, and possible business outcomes if the organization is successful,” Mahdi said. Among the advantages is the business unit better understand the cyber risks. “Data security today is still based on gut reaction,” Mahdi said: “You have a breach, you throw technology at it. You fail an audit, you throw technology at it. The vast majority of organizations are in that mode.” Getting out of that mindset, will hopefully lower an organization’s risk. And that might bring in more sunshine. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security gartner, security strategies Industry leaders explore the challenges and potential benefits of 5G Cyber Security Today: Don't deliver this mail, a text scam and beware of synthetic clicks About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada