https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-chrome-tests-reading-mode-hackers-steal-biometric-data-amds-new-processor/418915
Hashtag Trending – Chrome tests reading mode; hackers steal biometric data; AMD's new processor | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Chrome tests reading mode; hackers steal biometric data; AMD’s new processor Tom Li @itworldca Published: June 12th, 2019 Chrome tests distraction-free reading mode, hackers steal biometric data from border patrol, AMD announces new processor. That’s all the tech news that’s trending today. It’s Wednesday, June 12th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Google, Google’s newest Chrome release fixes a bunch of bugs and adds a new reading mode. Once updated to version 75, Chrome will allow the user to enable the “Distill page” option, which clears the page of ads and other obtrusive elements. This feature may already sound familiar to Mozilla Firefox or Microsoft Edge users as it’s been a part of them for a while now. Currently, Distill page is tucked away in Chrome’s experimental features section. Follow the source linked in our transcript for instructions on how to turn it on. Trending on Reddit, hackers managed to steal biometric data collected by U.S. Customs and Border Patrol. The Washington Post reported that images of people’s faces and license plates were lost in the attack, which can be used to construct identity theft. Loss of biometric information is especially dangerous due to their permanence; once lost, they present a persistent threat. The CBP reported that fewer than 100,000 people were impacted in its initial report, highlighting the dangers of mishandling sensitive information. Lastly, trending on Google, AMD announced a new desktop processor that packs 16 cores, or 32 threads, at E3. The processor, called the Ryzen 9 3950X, uses AMD’s third generation Zen microarchitecture built on 7nm transistors. It also comes with massive amounts of cache — 72MB to be exact. Equally impressive is its 105W TDP, which is very low considering its high core count. While AMD says that the processor is designed for gaming, its multithreaded design should make it suitable for professional workloads, too. The Ryzen 9 3950X will be purchasable in September for $749 USD. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Careers hashtag trending, podcasts Dell updates XPS and Precision business laptop lineups Cyber Security Today: FBI warning, more phony phone call scams and distrust on the Internet About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada