https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-firefox-switches-to-encrypted-dns-intuit-buys-credit-karma-eu-recommends-signal-app/427762
Hashtag Trending- Firefox switches to encrypted DNS; Intuit buys Credit Karma; EU recommends Signal app | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending- Firefox switches to encrypted DNS; Intuit buys Credit Karma; EU recommends Signal app Tom Li @itworldca Published: February 26th, 2020 The Mozilla Firefox browser just received a privacy boost by employing encrypted DNS, Intuit has decided to fold Credit Karma under its wings for $7.1 billion, and the EU recommends the popular messaging app to curb data leaks. Thank you for tuning into Hashtag Trending, it’s Wednesday, February 26th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Google, Mozilla is switching over to an encrypted domain name system (DNS for short) in the U.S. Whereas most of today’s browsers use HTTPS protocol to encrypt the data exchanged between you and the domain, Mozilla is switching over to an encrypted domain name system that also encrypts what sites you search for. The DNS is hosted by Cloudflare and will be rolling out across the U.S. in the coming weeks. It won’t completely mask your presence on the web, but it does make data snooping a little more difficult. Trending on Reddit, financial software company Intuit will be purchasing Credit Karma for $7.1 billion. Not only does this mark the company’s biggest purchase to date, it will also give Intuit an opportunity to cross-sell its services. In addition, Intuit will net Credit Karma’s entire user base. Although they share many similarities, Intuit isn’t looking to completely absorb Credit Karma, but rather keep it as an independent wing. Trending on Reddit, the European Commission has recommended its staff to use Signal, the popular end-to-end encrypted messaging app. Developed by OpenWhisper Systems, Signal’s key drawing point is its robust end-to-end encryption protocol. The company has been praised for its security efforts by the likes of Edward Snowden. The European Commission recommends Signal to be used for internal-to-external communications. One caveat is that the encryption only works between Signal users, which could make it difficult to enforce for parties outside the EU. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Gartner says nearly half of privacy compliance technology to rely on AI by 2023 RSA Conference: Democratize security, says Cisco official, and McAfee urges work on quantum-resistant solutions About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada