https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/humber-college-launching-cloud-computing-certificate-in-partnership-with-aws/424087
Humber College launching cloud computing certificate in partnership with AWS | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Credit: Humber College Artificial Intelligence Cloud Education Public Sector Humber College launching cloud computing certificate in partnership with AWS Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: November 15th, 2019 Skills in cloud computing have become almost essential in the modern workforce and Humber College is taking steps it hopes will help fill the talent gap in Canada. Leading the way in that initiative is Humber’s recent launch of its Cloud Computing Ontario Graduate Certificate – the first of its kind in Canada – which is set to launch in the Fall of 2020 and was developed in partnership with Amazon Web Services. Rani Dhaliwal, Humber’s senior vice-president of transformation and strategic partnerships, says this course was an evolution of past conversations the college had done with AWS, which led them to evaluate how they could collaborate together. “We started to have conversations as to ‘What do you do in training? What are the other tools that you have? And how can that help us to fill our mandate?’ They helped to ensure that there is appropriate knowledge and the skills in our learners that feed the industry requirements,” said Dhaliwal. “And from those conversations, we looked at our strengths and their opportunities.” Through this partnership, Amazon will be providing Humber with its cloud infrastructure as well as many of the cloud computing tools being used in the course. Such tools include AWS Deep Racer, a 1/18th scale race car driven by reinforcement learning, and ‘go smart with Alexa’, an AI training program that creates custom Alexa skills using Amazon Echo. AWS’s head of programs for Latin America, Canada, and the Carribean, Abby Daniell, says the course content is based on much of the educational courses that AWS provides itself and was designed with the modern economy in mind, although with enough versatility to fill the varying jobs of our modern landscape. “We’re all about helping educate students and then they get a job,” said Daniell. “Those pathways vary from everything from data analytics to cybersecurity to DevOps and cloud computing.” Humber College is also due to become an AWS Academy Institution, and an AWS Certification Testing Center, which allows them to teach AWS’s curriculum and conduct the testing needed for AWS certification. Artificial Intelligence, Cloud, Education, Public Sector cloud computing, Humber College, postmedia Ontario's Grey County realizes disaster recovery is not a business continuity plan Hashtag Trending - Google to shield personal data, Facebook signs lease in New York, Disney+ early reactions About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada