https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-goodbye-windows-7-ubers-ontario-fight-microsoft-ceo-slams-backdoors/426071
Hashtag Trending - Goodbye Windows 7, Uber's Ontario fight, Microsoft CEO slams backdoors | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Goodbye Windows 7, Uber’s Ontario fight, Microsoft CEO slams backdoors Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: January 15th, 2020 People say their farewells to Windows 7, Uber drivers in Ontario want to unionize, and Microsoft’s CEO says encryption backdoors are a “terrible idea”. Windows 7 is no more. The ex-operating system had a good 10-year run, but Microsoft has officially discontinued support for the beloved OS, meaning no more security updates and no more technical assistance. While one half of social media was spreading word about a serious Windows 10 vulnerability that, of course, wasn’t going to be patched on Windows 7, Twitter spent a lot of time reminiscing about the good ol’ times. For many, Windows 7, the successor to the widely-despised Windows Vista, introduced several new features that forever changed Microsoft’s OS, such as the Windows Taskbar and Action Centre. There’s a lot of chatter about the roughly 300 Uber Black drivers from the Greater Toronto area that have applied to unionize at the Ontario Labour Board. The drivers for the ride-sharing giant’s chauffeur service say they’re looking for improved pay, protection from unjust dismissal and to be classified as employees rather than as independent contractors. Unlike employees, independent contractors have no protection under Ontario’s current employment laws. Uber told the Toronto Star that its platform does allow drivers to control where and when they work. Microsoft CEO says encryption backdoors are a ‘terrible idea’ from technology And lastly, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella recently told reporters in New York that he and the rest of the company are against backdoor encryptions, but indicated the need for legal and technical solutions for the future. The comment comes shortly after the U.S. Attorney General William Barr’s recent request of Apple to unlock two iPhones connected to last month’s shooting at a Pensacola naval base. In a press conference earlier this week, Barr asked Apple and other tech companies to “help us find a solution so that we can better protect the lives of American people and prevent future attacks.” Apple has said that it’s technically impossible to unlock an iPhone without the user’s passcode without making a backdoor, which could compromise the security of every iPhone owner. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Lenovo's bendy ThinkPad X1 Fold is US$2,500, coming mid-2020 Cyber Security Today - Baby data breach, stolen business contact database for sale and cyber attack at the United Nations About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada