https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/tracktik-ceo-becomes-the-latest-ceo-at-the-council-of-canadian-innovators/422285
TrackTik CEO becomes the latest CEO at The Council of Canadian Innovators | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Leadership TrackTik CEO becomes the latest CEO at The Council of Canadian Innovators Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: September 27th, 2019 Simon Ferragne, TrackTik Inc. CEO has earned a seat on The Council of Canadian Innovators (CCI), becoming its latest CEO to help shape the innovation agenda for Canada. In this position, Ferragne will be working on optimizing the growth of Canada’s innovation sector with over a hundred of his peers. Simon Ferragne, TrackTik Inc. CEO has earned a seat on The Council of Canadian Innovators (CCI), becoming its latest CEO to help shape the innovation agenda for Canada. Source | LinkedIn Made up of CEOs from the leading tech firms in cybersecurity, ICT, healthtech and cleantech sectors from across the country, CCI says it helps promote and strengthen public policies to help domestic firms grow and generate more economic growth in the country. Despite being a terrific start-up nation, Canada has failed to produce many tech giants. Ferragne, along with his peers, will focus on overcoming the scale-up challenge. Ferrange has helped TrackTik become an important security industry disrupter through the ongoing growth of its integrated security operations management software. “We live in an exciting technology era where today’s innovations are defining tomorrow’s trends,” Ferragne said in a statement. “As Canadian governments start to reorient their economic policies towards supporting the growth of homegrown firms that are rapidly scaling-up globally, policy makers are actively seeking the expertise of Canadian innovators to ensure the strategies they are creating do in fact help domestic firms grow to the next level of success,” noted Benjamin Bergen, executive director of CCI, in a press release. In April the Canadian federal government also signaled its support for the growing tech industry in Canada by announcing a $52.4 million investment to help businesses scale up. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership tracktik Metro Toronto Convention Centre to install weapon detection tech that uses machine learning Telus takes home top spot in PCMag's Fastest Networks Canada test About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada