https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-office-365-banned-in-germany-kids-want-to-be-youtubers-qualcomms-new-chipset/420006
Hashtag Trending – Office 365 banned in Germany; kids want to be YouTubers; Qualcomm's new chipset | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Office 365 banned in Germany; kids want to be YouTubers; Qualcomm’s new chipset Tom Li @itworldca Published: July 17th, 2019 Office 365 banned in German State of Hesse, YouTuber a more popular career choice than astronauts in the United States, Qualcomm releases new mobile chipset. That’s all the tech news that’s trending today. It’s Wednesday, July 17th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Reddit, The German State of Hesse has banned the use of Microsoft Office 365 in its schools. Michael Ronellenfitsch, Hesse’s data protection commissioner, warned that data stored in the cloud could be accessed in the United States. He also noted that Windows 10 is also avariciously gathering telemetry data and sending them to Microsoft. Soon after, Microsoft responded with a statement saying that it’s looking forward to working with the Hessian Commissioner to understand its concerns. Trending on Reddit, kids in the United States would rather be YouTube stars than astronauts. In a survey conducted by the Harris Poll, 29 per cent of the participating children chose YouTuber as their dream career, outranking teacher, professional athlete, musician, and finally astronaut at just 11 per cent. Interestingly, the stats are reversed in China, where 56 per cent of the kids chose astronauts as their top career, and Youtuber sat dead last at 18 per cent. Lastly, trending on Reddit, Qualcomm announces the Snapdragon 855 Plus mobile chipset. This “new” chip is a higher binned version of the existing Snapdragon 855. The practice of binning refers to grouping parts based on characteristics and quality. A higher binned chip can often run at higher frequencies and deliver better performance. Indeed, the Snapdragon 855 Plus sees a 4.2 per cent boost to CPU frequency and a 15 per cent boost in GPU frequency. The chip is expected to ship to vendors in the upcoming weeks. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts We're going 'hard' after Dropbox and Box in the enterprise, says OpenText CEO Cyber Security Today - Instant messaging app attack, retired crooks and trouble with RingCentral About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada