https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/opentext-acquires-liaison-technologies-for-310-million/413102
OpenText acquires Liaison Technologies for $310 million | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Managed Services & Outsourcing OpenText acquires Liaison Technologies for $310 million Meagan Simpson @megesimpson Published: December 18th, 2018 Waterloo-based OpenText has announced its official acquisition of cloud-based information integration and data management company Liaison Technologies Inc. in an all-cash $310 million (USD) transaction. Liaison will be integrated into the OpenText Business Network, a suite of tools that allow for information flow between people and systems. Liaison Alloy Platform technology will be used to help accelerate onboarding and migration of information, according to the press release. “Liaison’s strong innovation in multi-enterprise application integration extends OpenText Business Network leadership within key verticals including life sciences, manufacturing and healthcare. The acquisition enables OpenText to address fast-growing adjacent market segments with a unique managed services approach,” Mark J. Barrenechea, OpenText’s chief technology officer and CEO said in the statement. He went on to explain that Liaison provides new technologies to customers to help build application networks in areas including mobile, cloud, software-as-a-service (SaaS) and omnichannel. With the acquisition being finalized during the holidays, OpenText states that full integration is expected to be up and running within the next 12 months. Based on the U.S. states of Georgia, Liaison’s key product is the Alloy Platform which is a cloud-based service that offers integration and data management. Its customers include Mastercard which according to the company’s website used the cloud platform to bring B2B payment service, Mastercard Track to the U.S. market in September of this year. This is OpenText’s second acquisition of 2018, earlier this year it purchased California-based Hightail, (a cloud service that lets users send, receive, digitally sign, and synchronize files), for an undisclosed amount. Cloud, Managed Services & Outsourcing acquisitions, cloud, CTO, data management, OpenText, SaaS Top 6 smartphones for business 2018: Apple iPhone XS HashTag Trending - Canadians get more spammed calls; Microsoft releases fixed updates; Nvidia AI generates realistic faces About Meagan Simpson Meagan Simpson is a Jr. staff writer for IT World Canada. A graduate of Carleton University’s journalism program, she loves sports, travelling, reading and photography, and when not covering tech news she can be found cuddled up on the couch with her cat and a good book. Follow Follow @megesimpson on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Solving common enterprise data challenges takes a collaborative approach Endpoint security solutions are the true treasure of Carbonite acquisition, says OpenText’s CPO Insight Partners to acquire data protection company Veeam Boring but useful information technologies Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada