https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-ces-apple-gets-roasted-outdated-it/425711
Hashtag Trending - CES, Apple gets roasted, outdated IT | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – CES, Apple gets roasted, outdated IT Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: January 7th, 2020 CES is underway in Las Vegas, and there are too many things to talk about, Apple gets a shoutout during the Golden Globes – not the one Tim Cook wanted though – and a story about outdated IT on BBC has exploded on Reddit. Where do we even begin? More than 170,000 people who work in and cover technology have descended on Las Vegas for CES 2020. The industry’s biggest players are showing off new products and apps that aim to take full advantage of 5G once it arrives. Lenovo and Qualcomm unveiled new devices that support various 5G wireless frequencies, Montreal’s Element AI announced a strategic partnership with LG Electronics, and a drone built for selfies has already seized headlines globally. Our very own Tom Li is at this year’s show, so make sure to follow him on Twitter (@ChirpsTom) and visit IT World Canada. com for more coverage from the event. Moving on to the Golden Globes – yes, that’s right – where host Ricky Gervais took a bite out of Apple with Apple CEO Tim Cook watching from the audience. After briefly praising “The Morning Show”, which is streaming on Apple TV, he quickly took the opportunity to lambast the company’s labour practices. While Apple doesn’t operate manufacturing facilities in China, it does partner with other companies, like Foxconn, to produce its devices in China. Tim Cook took to Twitter shortly after the roast to congratulate the night’s nominees and winners. And lastly, a Reddit post about outdated IT has reached nearly 25 thousand upvotes as of this recording. The post links to a BBC article about England setting aside roughly $40 million pounds to help hospitals and clinics introduce single-system logins in the next year. The story says healthcare facilities across the country have IT systems that are so outdated that staff have to log in up to 15 different systems just to start their day. The story was published a year after the British government demanded the NHS – executive non-departmental public body of the Department of Health and Social Care – to phase out fax machines entirely in 2020. Must be nice, because those things are still rampant across Canada. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Dell's foldable devices at CES 2020: Duet, Ori, and UFO Ridesharing services could soon replace personal vehicles, according to Accenture study About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada