https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-internet-is-here-to-stay-netflix-youtube-slow-down-techs-big-5-struggle/428782
Hashtag Trending - Internet is here to stay; Netflix, YouTube slow down; Tech's big 5 struggle | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Internet is here to stay; Netflix, YouTube slow down; Tech’s big 5 struggle Staff @itworldca Published: March 23rd, 2020 People are worried over the strain COVID-19 is putting on the internet, YouTube and Netflix reduce their streaming resolutions in response to spikes in traffic, and Tech’s Big 5 lost a lot of money in one month. As the world settles into their humble abodes to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the question shifts to whether or not the internet can handle all of our internet-ing. Vice reports that While industry insiders say that the U.S. internet should be able to handle the strain overall, broadband availability, affordability, and slow speeds could still pose a serious problem for many housebound U.S. residents. In Canada, reports have already surfaced that people are having trouble dialing into certain conference calls because of the increased traffic. Major Canadian internet service providers, including Telus and Rogers, are removing the monthly data cap on their internet subscriptions. In Europe, Netflix and YouTube have agreed to reduce streaming resolution, from HD to standard, for 30 days to help lessen the strain on the region’s internet infrastructure. The announcement comes as Disney+ prepares to launch in several European countries on March 24. The news has lead to a lot of chatter online about how 5G would function under similar circumstances, and while a lot of that is speculation, it does shed light on some of the archaic networking infrastructure that’s currently in place across North America. And lastly, Apple, Microsoft, Amazon, Alphabet and Facebook have lost a combined $1.3 trillion in value since the market peaked on Feb. 19. CNBC reports that the Seattle area, home to Microsoft and Amazon, and the San Francisco-Silicon Valley corridor, have been two of the hardest-hit areas in the nation in terms of COVID-19 outbreaks. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts CIOs worry about people, capacity and security as COVID-19 crisis grows Cyber Security Today - database.Database with 5 billion records left open, Rogers warns Canadians of data exposure and FBI warns of financial help scam Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada