https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-who-really-is-that-voice-80-indicted-for-email-fraud-and-ditch-old-software/421188
Cyber Security Today – Who really is that voice, 80 indicted for email fraud and ditch old software | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – Who really is that voice, 80 indicted for email fraud and ditch old software Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: August 26th, 2019 Who really is that voice, 80 indicted for email fraud and ditch old software Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Monday August 26th. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanada.com. To hear the podcast, click on the arrow below: Smart organizations have strict policies over how employees handle money. Certain verbal or written permissions should be needed before a staffer can transfer money by wire or change the regular bank account of a supplier. Those rules should include checking twice when instructions come by email, which can easily be faked. Well, there’s a new threat coming, say experts: Fake voicemail. The ability for bad guys to create so-called deepfake audio recordings of real people like your boss is increasing. Last month a security company reported three cases of these fake recordings of executives that try to trick employees into transferring cash. So, business listeners, it’s time to add policies about getting independent verification about financial requests from voicemail as well as email. If you get a request, don’t reply to the email. Speak to a supervisor or phone someone senior using a phone number you know, not one in the email. Speaking of email fraud, employees at Portland, Oregon’s public school board recently fell for it and transferred almost $3 million to an unapproved bank account. According to a news story last week the board was able to freeze the money before the fraudster withdrew it. More good news on this front: The U.S. Department of Justice last week indicted 80 people for allegedly being involved in a global business email and romance scam network that stole $6 million from victims. Most of the accused are in Nigeria, but 14 people were arrested in the U.S. According to the indictment, stolen money was laundered through bank accounts in the United States. Some victims lost hundreds of thousands of dollars. Many were elderly. I often talk about the need to make sure all software on your devices have the latest patches or versions. That also means abandoning old software that isn’t supported anymore. A report last week from security vendor Trend Micro shows another reason why. It says there’s a new version of malware circulating that takes advantage of a seven-old old vulnerability in Microsoft Office, and a nine-year-old hole in Adobe Acrobat and Acrobat Reader. Some of you may be using an old version of Microsoft Office because it’s expensive to buy a new one. Well, it will be expensive if you’re hacked. Buy a new one or use one of the free office productivity suites like Microsoft Office Online, LibreOffice, Google Docs or Polaris Office. As for Acrobat Reader, this free PDF reader needs to be regularly updated. It’s free, so why not? Finally, you’ve probably heard of Windows support scams. Three’s also an Apple scam. You get a recorded voice call saying there’s a problem with your Apple account. The message says don’t do anything until you speak to an Apple support person, who is waiting on the line. Hang up. Tell your family and friends to do the same. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Hashtag Trending - Bad location data botches court cases; unsafe items on Amazon; YouTube pulls more than 200 channels Canadian customers’ heads are still in the clouds, and so is VMware’s About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada