https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/sophisticated-attack-uses-fake-web-sites-as-bait/98566
Sophisticated attack uses fake Web sites as bait | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image from Shutterstock.com Emerging Tech Privacy & Security Sophisticated attack uses fake Web sites as bait Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: October 27th, 2014 Government, media and military organizations in the United States, Europe as well as opponents of the Russian government are the targets of a new systematic attack using what Trend Micro researchers are describing as a “simple but clever JavaScript trick” that targets users of Microsoft’s Office 365 Outlook Web Access. OWA gives browser-based access to the online suite. “The OWA phishing attacks seemed effective and so could be particularly dangerous to any organization that allows employees to use OWA,” researchers say in a new report. Dubbed Operation Pawn Storm, Trend Micro says the gang uses three attack vectors: spear-phishing email with malicious attachments, an advanced network of phishing Web sites and exploits injected into legitimate Polish websites. Many have in common the use of the SEDNIT/Sofacy malware, mostly backdoor and information stealing multistage downloaders that give attackers protection against detection. Among its strategies, the attackers created a Web site with a domain similar to one used by Hungary’s defence ministry for an upcoming conference as bait, then sent an email with the phony link to select ministry employees. If they used OWA and clicked on the link, two browser tabs opened: One with the real conference Web site, while the other redirected by JavaScript to a phished log-in page that looked like the session had ended. The hope was that users would want to re-enter their credentials to log back in, giving the attackers their ID and passwords. Other tactics included using a fake news web site and a fake company site. In this case the attackers registered a domain that looked very similar to the company’s, and purchased a Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificate for the fake domain. The attackers have also sent email with attachments linked to something they might expect to receive — for example, an email was sent in September, 2013 to military officials from several countries referring to the upcoming Asia-Pacific Economic Co-operation (APEC) Indonesia 2013 conference. The email had a malicious Microsoft Excel attachments named “APEC Media list 2103. Part1.xls.” Often the email has a decoy document plus an expoit, a downloader component. It communications with a command and control server that downloads a dropper that installs a keylogger. Trend Micro examined attacks from the group from 2010 to 2014, noting this year’s efforts were “more streamlined.” In some cases people did click on the links, the report noted with the attackers able “to steal all manners of sensitive information from the victims’ computers. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Privacy & Security security strategies Microsoft brand to erase Nokia soon Lacavera gives up CEO post, remains chairman of Wind Mobile About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada