https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/vmware-creating-digital-transformation-with-updates-to-network-virtualization-platform/390518
VMWare creating digital transformation with updates to network virtualization platform | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Infrastructure Privacy & Security VMWare creating digital transformation with updates to network virtualization platform Alex Radu @alextradu Published: February 6th, 2017 VMware Inc. is dialing further into security with its latest upgrades to its network virtualization platform: VMware NSX. The network virtualization platform comes in two options: NSX for vSphere, meaning it can be deployed in the vendor’s suite of virtualization products; and NSX-T, network virtualization for new application frameworks and architectures that have heterogeneous endpoints and technology stacks. Both options create an offering that allows organizations to deploy an agile software-defined infrastructure in order to build public-cloud native application environments. “We have customers that are now able to deliver entire new applications within minutes scaling faster whether it’s in their data centre or the public cloud using the VMware portfolio. NSX is one of the biggest reasons for that because of the agility we bring for networking and security,” said Milin Desai, vice president of products for VMware’s networking and security business unit, in an interview with ITWC. Desai describes data centre security similar to a house: you have a strong perimeter defense, or north-south protection, but once you’re inside, you have unprecedented access to anything inside. Just like how you aren’t locking every individual door in your house, applications within the data centre don’t often have additional security. To tackle this issue, the NSX portfolio provides micro-segmentation, or east-west protection, by locking down unnecessary communication between applications. Essentially, north-south is traffic coming from the outside into your web layer, and east-west is traffic from your web layer to your database layer. “Let’s say an end user’s virtual desktop, or an application, gets breached, because of this east-west protection, the malware can not then jump laterally to another application or control system because of this micro-segmentation,” said Desai. “This is something we can uniquely deliver in the data centre.” For those customers interested in micro-segmentation, VMware can offer a free tool called the virtual network assessment. By running this tool, VMware customers can get an idea of what their data centre looks like, from east-west traffic to north-south traffic. Ultimately this move is done to help customers accelerate digital transformation, and that starts by helping them understand what type of security they need, and how quickly they need it. Related Stories Digital transformation is disrupting quality assurance VMware re-envisions virtualization in a digital world Desai explains that digital transformation comes down to how organizations, whether it be health care, banking, insurance agencies, etc., are trying to create more frequent and meaningful interactions with their customers. This is being done by integrating faster. “You integrate faster with agility, and it can only be agile if you can deliver applications faster, and that’s what we’re really driving with NSX. Delivering applications with networking and security faster to achieve the end goal of unique interactions for these organizations with their end users,” Desai said. NSX for vSphere supports vSphere 6.5, and features enhancements in four areas: Security: New Application Rule Manager and Endpoint Monitoring features provide unique visibility from OS-level activity to network flows, resulting in automated policy and rule updates and making micro-segmentation easier to implement and more capable. Application Continuity: New enhancements deliver consistent and dynamic security policies for customers scaling SDDC environments across multiple data centres and multiple VMware vCenters. SDDC to Branch Connectivity: NSX now allows customers to extend a unified virtual network infrastructure with consistent performance security controls to remote endpoints from a central location, enabling enterprises to connect an SDDC to branch locations. Service Provider/NFV Deployments: Enhanced support for VMware vCloud Director provides advanced self-service NSX capabilities for multi-tenant service provider deployments and NFV initiatives. Additionally, VMWare has announced a new beta program for those customers interested in container networking and security for application frameworks called the Container Network Interface (CNI), support for its enterprise cloud-native infrastructure platform, the VMware Photon Platform, updated support for OpenStack Newton and Mitaka, and expanded support for multiple KVM distributions from Canonical and Red Hat. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Infrastructure, Privacy & Security data centre, network virtualization, security, VMWare Increasing cyber incidents could mean 'tragedy' for online trust: Industry group RCMP turns to AI to help rescue victims of child sexual exploitation About Alex Radu is a Video Producer for IT World Canada. When not writing or making videos about the tech industry, you can find him reading, watching TV/movies, or watching the Lakers rebuild with one eye open. Follow Follow @alextradu on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity How to stonewall the hackers trying to to get around your MFA Why pizza party security training doesn’t cut it anymore U.S. indicts four Chinese military members for 2017 Equifax breach Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada