https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/were-going-hard-after-dropbox-and-box-in-the-enterprise-says-opentext-ceo/420010
We're going 'hard' after Dropbox and Box in the enterprise, says OpenText CEO | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Muhi Majzoub, EVP engineering and cloud services, OpenText. Photo by Lynn Greiner Cloud Emerging Tech We’re going ‘hard’ after Dropbox and Box in the enterprise, says OpenText CEO Lynn Greiner @lynngr Published: July 16th, 2019 TORONTO – OpenText Corp. is taking a bigger leap into the cloud with the upcoming release of its Enterprise Information Management (EIM) suite. This year’s Release 16 will become the new cloud-first Cloud Edition in April 2020, containerized, fully integrated into the OpenText Cloud, and with deep Google support. “We’re not interested in kind of generic clouds that don’t add value, we want to go to cloud providers that make innovative sense,” explained chief executive officer and chief technical officer Mark Barrenechea. “And Google’s a great example of where we can get to a transcription, translation services, deeper integration, and click stream for supply chain customers and have their Google Cloud Platform as an option for customers.” To that end, OpenText announced extensions to its seven-month-old partnership with Google, with OpenText naming Google its preferred partner for enterprise cloud, and Google selecting OpenText as its preferred partner for EIM. OpenTexts roadmap for its cloud solutions. Photo by Lynn Greiner. In addition, OpenText will use Google Cloud to enable global disaster recovery services for EIM customers, will integrate its products with G Suite, integrate key Google machine learning and artificial intelligence services to create industry-specific solutions, and leverage Google Anthos to deploy and manage EIM workloads in multi-cloud environments. The companies will also expand their joint go-to-market activities. This doesn’t mean that on-premises deployments will be forcibly replaced. Barrenechea promised that the company would support on-premises environments as long as customers demand it. And they will continue with traditional licensing until they migrate to cloud, at which point pricing switches to a subscription model. “Shift happens,” Barrenechea noted during his keynote. “Shift has happened, and it’s an exciting time. We have transitioned. We’re not in the digital era anymore, we are beyond digital. We are in a post-ERP era; we are in the information era. Automation is not enough. Everything must be machine-readable.” That includes signatures. Later this year, electronic signatures will be added to OpenText Core. “It’s a feature inside of Content Suite,” he said. “It’s not a company. E-signatures is a feature that should be in the product line.” Later he told media that the e-signatures are part of the capability set designed to win the enterprise from Box and Dropbox. “Box and Dropbox, they’re a feature, I’ve said it all along,” he said. “We are competitive, we’re going after them hard in the enterprise. Core collab is there, plus workflow, plus forms, now electronic signature, integrated in. We’re taking no quarter here, there’s no rest and no quarter against Box and Dropbox. It’s all out of battle to win that space and OpenText is going to win.” Mastercard was part of another key announcement at Enterprise World. Joel Kremke, vice-president of Covisint global sales and alliances at OpenText explained that automotive supply companies worldwide use OpenText Business Network for all kinds of secure collaboration via its automotive identity exchange: engineering collaboration, financial collaboration, inventory, sales, and more. When OpenText heard about the Mastercard Track B2B global trade enablement platform, it seemed a perfect fit and a partnership was born. The companies will leverage the OpenText Supplier Portal (formerly Covisint Supplier Portal), OpenText Identity Portal, and the OpenText IoT Platform, integrated with Mastercard Track, through a single user interface to allow Business Network’s automotive supplier customers to access spot financing, as well as maintain and exchange key business information. Track will provide monitoring on sanctions, credit, and other business information. “It’s focused on the customer experience, which is clearly why we’re here,” said Claire Thompson, executive vice-president of enterprise partnerships at Mastercard. “Real time risk management, finding trusted partners who they want to trade with, integrating payments in a robust manner. And then obviously, we’re also looking at the payments information that we get, as well as providing visibility. So what have I got paid for, when am I going to get paid, the whole cash flow management, which is obviously also critical for SMEs.” She added that since both Mastercard and OpenText already have extensive relationships with banks, implementation will be accelerated, and given many of the companies using the Business Network are SMEs, the program will help increase financial inclusion. “And imagine as we continue to build more and more intelligence into the network for them, then the smallest guy has got the exact same sort of key abilities as the big guy in the network,” Kremke said. “It’s aspirational, and that’s where we’re going.” Cloud, Emerging Tech Dropbox, enterprise, OpenText CEOs are leaning on CIOs to do a lot more, says new report, but few CIOs are following through Hashtag Trending - Office 365 banned in Germany; kids want to be YouTubers; Qualcomm’s new chipset About Lynn Greiner Lynn Greiner has been interpreting tech for businesses for over 20 years and has worked in the industry as well as writing about it, giving her a unique perspective into the issues companies face. She has both IT credentials and a business degree. Follow Follow @lynngr on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Endpoint security solutions are the true treasure of Carbonite acquisition, says OpenText’s CPO OpenText Enfuse 2019: The Carbonite acquisition, new apps, and updates OpenText acquires Carbonite for $1.42 billion New OpenText content services to be integrated into SAP platforms Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada