https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-crtc-hearing-new-budget-iphone-new-microsoft-office-app/427468
Hashtag Trending – CRTC hearing; new budget iPhone; new Microsoft Office app | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – CRTC hearing; new budget iPhone; new Microsoft Office app Tom Li @itworldca Published: February 19th, 2020 If you care about Canadian mobile pricing at all, then you may want to tune into the CRTC public hearing. Also, mark your calendar for Apple’s budget iPhone launch on March 31st, and keep a lookout for Microsoft’s new Office app for Android. Thank you for tuning into Hashtag Trending, it’s Wednesday, February 19th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending in Canada, the CRTC is holding a hearing to assess the merits of mandated mobile virtual network operators, or MVNOs, in Canada. If approved, then it would allow for mobile network resellers to rent out a portion of infrastructure from facility-based operators. There are arguments for and against such an action. The CRTC was considering the move to lower prices of mobile plans in Canada, but current facility-based carriers, regional or otherwise, argue that MVNOs could stifle innovation. The public hearing will last for 10 days between Feb 18th to 28th, and you can watch it live through the link in our transcription. Trending on Google, Apple will be hosting an event on March 31st to launch a new budget iPhone, according to various sources. Recently, there have been talks of the iPhone 9, the successor of the iPhone SE. There may be new iPad Pros and MacBook Pro updates as well, so remember to check the news if you’re on the prowl for a new iOS experience. Trending on Google, Microsoft has finally rolled all its Android Office apps into one installer. Previously, you’d have to download each app individually, which meant cluttering up your app drawer and can be an annoyance if you’re setting up a new device. Not only does the new Microsoft Office app include Word, Excel, and PowerPoint, it also includes Office Lens, the image to text scanning app. The new Officeffice app is still being rolled out, so it may not be immediately available for Canadians just yet. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Cyber Security Today - Ring security cameras may not help police, VPNs at risk and beware of fake Epic Games launchers Movement starts to have Canada declare Sept. 1 as International Women in Cyber Day About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada