https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/interac-and-mastercard-announce-international-e-transfers-at-collision/418314
Interac and Mastercard announce international e-transfers at Collision | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Interac and Mastercard announce international e-transfers at Collision Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: May 22nd, 2019 Canadians will now be able to transfer money to Europe through the Interac Corp.’s e-Transfer platform, thanks to a collaboration with Mastercard Inc., as was announced today at Collision in Toronto. Leveraging the Mastercard Send service through the Interac E-Transfer platform, customers will be able to send money to bank accounts in Europe, with other areas expected to follow. Peter Maoloni, the vice-president of product and platform delivery for Interac, says he saw the collaboration as a natural fit, despite the two companies being viewed as competitors. “Interac and Mastercard are commonly viewed as competitors. But it’s a new landscape. Competitors can make the greatest partners,” said Maoloni in an interview with IT World Canada. “And we hope with this announcement that people understand and realize that we’re benefiting Canadians with the ability to remit transactions internationally. And it’s the start of a partnership that doesn’t see us in a space that we normally compete in, but it shows how we can take a collective approach to the assets that we have and deliver something unique into the market.” Ramesh Jayakrishnan, the vice-president of Push Payments at Mastercard, reiterated the fit between the two companies and emphasized that collaboration like this is key to providing unique services that otherwise could not exist. “Collaboration really is the new innovation happening in many ways. And we have to believe with the assets that Mastercard from a global perspective and what Interac does domestically, it just makes sense for us to bring these two assets together and make money moving for Canadians really a seamless process internationally,” said Jayakrishnan explained. For now, the only bank to take on this service has been National Bank, but they are very excited about the potential of this collaboration and all sides expect more banks to be on board in the near future. “We’re delighted to team up with two trusted brands to launch a new digital solution that will speed up cross-border payments. This innovative offering meets a growing need to send funds quickly and securely and will have a positive impact on our clients. We look forward to deploying this valuable addition to our current digital banking experience,” said Gabrielle Cournoyer, vice-president of cards and payment solutions at National Bank, in a press release. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech Interac, MasterCard, National Bank Collision 2019: Diversity in technology still has a 'long way to go', says Cisco's Rola Dagher Hashtag Trending - Baltimore held hostage; Google Glass comeback; Google AI bests radiologists About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Mastercard opens global cybersecurity centre in Vancouver Mastercard and Zoho expand partnership to provide tools on a global scale Hashtag Trending – iPhone hacking tools on eBay; Interac’s e-Transfers are booming; is your data plan ready for 5G? Why a seemingly insignificant financial merger triggered huge wave of Canadian phishing attacks Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada