https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cisco-commits-225-million-to-covid-19-response/428801
Cisco commits $225 million to COVID-19 response | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Cisco commits $225 million to COVID-19 response Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: March 23rd, 2020 Cisco says it’s committing $225 million to support both local and global responses to the COVID-19 pandemic, the company announced in a blog post this week. As part of this commitment, the company is allocating $8 million in cash and $210 million in-kind (product) to the global COVID-19 response. The company says it’s focusing these resources on supporting critical technology, government response, healthcare, and education. A chunk of it will go toward the COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund established by the UN Foundation, supporting the WHO’s global effort to manage, detect and prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease. Cisco is also providing funding for businesses, government agencies, and heads of state to rapidly deploy technology solutions related to COVID-19, as well as access to its free Security and Webex offers. The company said it has more than 2.2 million people using its Webex offerings. In addition, Cisco says that it’s rallying its 77, 000 employees and encouraging them to support the company’s community partners on the front lines in any way they can to help bolster their operations. “I am proud to say that thousands of Cisco employees in communities across 180 countries are focused on helping in any way they can. We have seen an outpouring of employees reaching out to contribute to the nonprofits helping their communities over the past few months. To support this, Cisco Foundation has launched a campaign allocating up to $5 million in grants and matching funds to make this happen,” Chuck Robbins, chairman and chief executive officer of Cisco Systems, said in the blog post. As the world responds to the global #COVID19 pandemic, it’s more important than ever that we help our communities navigate this time. @Cisco is committing $225M in cash, in-kind, and planned giving to support those in need: https://t.co/OBtwrzSlPl — Chuck Robbins (@ChuckRobbins) March 23, 2020 Robbins also said Cisco is launching several funds to support “a range of non-governmental organizations in APJC, EMEAR, the Americas, and the San Francisco Bay Area.” He added that a 72-hour employee giving campaign called “Let’s Give Together” will also launch this week to encourage donations to these funds and to see how much we can raise in a few short days. “To support this, Cisco Foundation has launched an employee matching gift campaign of up to $4 million in total giving, and is allocating $1 million in additional grants to help nonprofit partners,” he wrote. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace Cisco, COVID-19, WebEx Can Huawei's AppGallery really replace Google's Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei's Google-less phone Hashtag Trending - 3D-printed ventilators; Drones yell at people to stay indoors; Banning targeted ads About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Insulating your business from COVID-19 impacts TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Telus says it’s providing free high-speed internet to low-income families for 60 days in response to COVID-29 Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada