https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/oct-16-2018-apples-latest-acqui-hire-gopro-deal-with-adobe-chinas-surveillance-plans-for-google/410353
Hashtag Trending – Apple's latest acqui-hire; GoPro deal with Adobe; China's surveillance plans for Google | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Apple’s latest acqui-hire; GoPro deal with Adobe; China’s surveillance plans for Google Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: October 16th, 2018 Apple makes another move in its music streaming battle with Spotify. Adobe Creative Cloud users will now gain access to some GoPro clips. And new laws passed in China may require Google to help surveil an ethnic minority. Trending on LinkedIn, Apple has acquired another startup in the music industry. It’s done a deal with analytics firm Asaii for under $100 million. Apple isn’t confirming the acquisition at the moment. Axios is reporting the acquisition, while TechCrunch says Apple has hired the company’s founders. Either way, Apple will want to put this analytics engine to work on discovering the best emerging artists. If it wants to beat Spotify in the music streaming market, it has to predict what songs its users will love. Asaii’s website says that its goal is “to find the next Justin Bieber, before anyone else.” Which sounds horrible to me, but I guess Apple’s taste is different from mine. Trending on Google, Adobe and GoPro have struck a deal to work together. Thousands of GoPro video clips will be added to Adobe’s Stock marketplace, giving users of Adobe Creative Cloud more visuals to work with when editing their own videos. As you’d expect from footage shot with a GoPro camera, the video will feature first-person perspectives of dramatic landscapes. It will include aerial and underwater scenes. Terms of the deal aren’t clear, but you can bet both Adobe and GoPro stand to make money off this. A la carte pricing to licence the clips is $80 for a 1080p clip, and $200 for a 4K clip. It looks like China just laid out how it wants Google to help it persecute its Muslim minority from technology Trending on Reddit, China just passed new laws calling on technology firms to help in its surveillance efforts over a Muslim minority population. The laws could apply to Google and its Project Dragonfly, a censored search engine that would receive approval from the Chinese government. Article 28 of new laws passed yesterday specifically call on telecommunications operators to “put in place monitoring systems and technological prevention measures for audio, messages and communications records” that have “extremifying information.” China has used similar language to detain Uighurs in the past. Careers Adobe, Apple, Google, hashtag trending, podcasts A Canadian solution to the challenge of building livable cities that work StatsCan report: 21 per cent of Canadian businesses impacted by a cyber event in 2017 About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada