https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/acers-windows-8-tablet-will-match-ipad-price/46924
Acer's Windows 8 tablet will match iPad price | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Mobility Acer’s Windows 8 tablet will match iPad price brian bloom @itworldca Published: October 9th, 2012 Acer has released more details about its upcoming Windows 8 table, the Iconia W510, according to this ComputerWorld article. First unveiled a few months ago at the Computex trade show, the most important question remaining was its price: would the new 10-inch tablet compete head to head with the iPad? According to the article, Acer is setting its prices pretty much on par with those for the newest iPads. The 32GB tablet will come in at $499, while a 64GB version will boost the price to $599. A keyboard dock and a two-year warranty will further increase the price by a couple hundred. Acer says the new tablets will start shipping in early November, right on the heels of Microsoft’s official release of Windows 8. The Iconia W510, which has built-in HDMI, micro-USB and micro-SD slots, will run Intel’s Clover Trail CPU and boasts up to nine hours of battery life. It has a 2MP front-facing camera and an 8 MP rear-facing camera. RELATED CONTENT Computex: Windows 8 tablets that stole the show Windows 8.0 SDK opens to developers Click here to read the article Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility acer, Tablets, Windows 8 Bell not worried despite U.S. concerns on Huawei Polycom promises to make VC easier Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Acer Swift 7 claims title of world’s thinnest laptop – All Hands on Tech at CES 2019 Top 15 journalists to follow on Twitter for CES 2019 Microsoft Surface Go – Unboxing for Business Samsung reveals newest tablet: the Galaxy Tab S4 Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada