https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-googles-new-paper-phone-whatsapp-sues-israeli-surveillance-firm-no-more-political-ads-on-twitter/423449
Hashtag Trending – Google's new Paper Phone; WhatsApp sues Israeli surveillance firm; No more political ads on Twitter | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Google’s new Paper Phone; WhatsApp sues Israeli surveillance firm; No more political ads on Twitter Tom Li @itworldca Published: October 31st, 2019 Today’s Hashtag Trending episode sees Google replacing phones with paper, WhatsApp dishing out a new lawsuit, and Twitter banning political ads. Thank you for tuning in, it’s Thursday, Oct. 31st, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Reddit, Google is experimenting with a new way to keep you off your phone. As a part of the Experiment with Google project, the new Paper Phone app will jot down your most frequently used information and print them out onto a sheet of paper. The intent is to reduce the frequency at which people looked at their screens. Although revolutionary, Paper Phone will face stiff competition from existing stationery. Alternatives include notebooks, wooden pencils, and fountain pens. Trending on Google, Facebook’s WhatsApp is suing NSO, an Israeli surveillance technology company, for targeting civil rights members. According to Whatsapp’s complaint, NSO used WhatsApp servers to distribute malware to around 1,400 devices, targeting at least 100 human rights defenders and journalists. NSO rebuffed the accusations, stating that it only provides the technology to governments to help prevent crime. WhatsApp is asking for $75,000 in damages and additional fees for any other proven wrong doing. https://twitter.com/jack/status/1189634360472829952?s=19 Trending on Twitter, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey announced that Twitter is stopping all political advertising on its platform. In his Tweet thread, Dorsey explained that political message outreach should be earned, not bought, and that he wants to prevent bad influences from affecting voters. Twitter is expected to share the final policy on November 15th and enforce it starting November 22nd. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Fortinet program that retrains military vets to tackle cyber threats grows in Canada Cyber Security Awareness Month: Advice from five expert sources About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada