https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/siemens-patches-scada-flaws/100111
 Siemens patches SCADA flaws   | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Privacy & Security Software Siemens patches SCADA flaws Nestor E. Arellano @NestorArellano Published: November 28th, 2014 German engineering and systems controls company Siemens AG, moved to patch a critical flaw on a number of its SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) products yesterday. The vulnerabilities enable remote attackers to steal files from Siemens SIMATIC WinCC SCADA servers and it is believed that the flaws have been exploited recently. The existence of the flaws has prompted the United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to issue a warning to organizations using SCADA which the DHS said could be exploited remotely. “These vulnerabilities allow for unauthenticated remote code execution,” the DHS said. “NCC/ICS-CERT (National Cybersecurity and Communications/Industrial Control Systems-Cyber Emergency Response Team) recommends that organizations evaluate the impact of these vulnerabilities based on their operational environment, architecture, and product implementation.” Related Articles SCADA vulnerabilities prompt U.S. warning Was Stuxnet built to attack Iran’s nuclear program? Siemens: Removing SCADA worm may harm plants An ICS-CERT advisory also said that “indicators exist that this vulnerability may have been exploited during a recent campaign.” While it continues to roll out more patches, Siemens (OTCMKTS: SIEGY) said customers should mitigate risks by implementing the following: Always run WinCC server and engineering stations within a trusted network Ensure that the WinCC server and the engineering stations communicate via encrypted channels only (e.g. activate feature “Encrypted Communications” in WinCCV7.3 (PCS 7 V8.1), or establish a VPN tunnel) Restrict access to the WinCC server to trusted entities Apply up-to-date application whitelisting software and virus scanners Back in 2010, Siemens released updates for SCADA. This was linked to the discovery of the Stuxnet worm in infected PC in Iran. The worm targeted Siemen’s WinCC software. In its latest bulletin, Siemens said it released software updates for WinCC, PC7 and TIA Portal and that the company is working on updates for other products affected by the flaws. The company released a list of affected products: SIMATIC WinCC V7.0 SP2 and earlier: All versions V7.0 SP3: All versions V7.2: All versions < V7.2 Update 9 V7.3: All versions < V7.3 Update 2 SIMATIC PCS 7 (as WinCC is incorporated) V7.1 SP4 and earlier: All versions V8.0: All versions < V8.0 SP2 with WinCC V7.2 Update 9 V8.1: All versions with WinCC V7.3 < Update 2 TIA Portal V13 (including WinCC Professional Runtime) All versions < V13 Update SIMATIC WinCC is a SCADA system, PCS7 is a distribution control system (DCS) integrating SIMATIC WinCC, and TIA Portal is engineering software for SIMATIC products. Vulnerability 1 (CVE-2014-8551) involves a component within WinCC which could allow remote execution for unauthenticated users if specially crafted packets are sent to the WinCC server. Vulnerability 2 (CVE-2014-8552) involves a component within WinCC that could allow unauthenticated users to extract arbitrary files from the WinCC server if specially crafted packets are sent to the server. In order for the exploit to succeed, attackers must have network access the affected system, said Siemens. Siemens has released updates for the following products and the company recommended that customers upgrade to the new versions as soon as possible: WinCC V7.2 Upgrade to WinCC V7.2 Update 9 [2] WinCC V7.3 Upgrade to WinCC V7.3 Update 2 [3] PCS 7 V8.0 SP2 Upgrade to WinCC V7.2 Update 9 [2] Upgrade to OpenPCS 7 V8.0 SP1 Update 5 [4] Upgrade to Route Control V8.0 SP1 Update 4 [4] Upgrade to BATCH V8.0 SP1 Update 11 [4] PCS 7 V8.1 Upgrade to WinCC V7.3 Update 2 [3] TIA Portal V13 (including WinCC Professional Runtime) Upgrade to WinCC V13 Update 6 [1] Siemens is preparing updates to WinCC V7.0 SP3 and earlier, PCS 7 V7.1 SP4 and earlier, and PCS 7 V8.1 with OpenPCS7, Route Control or BATCH. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Privacy & Security, Software control systems, critical vulnerability, servers, Siemens Montreal Metro fires up subway mobile wireless service Intel buys Canadian firm to handle ‘password fatigue’ About Nestor E. Arellano Toronto-based journalist specializing in technology and business news. Blogs and tweets on the latest tech trends and gadgets. Follow Follow @NestorArellano on Twitter Join Nestor E. Arellano on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Thousands of Supermicro servers vulnerable to remote attack, says security vendor Mendix – ‘A new and powerful maker movement aimed at enterprise application development?’ Sponsored By: Schneider Electric Why brick-and-mortar retail is taking the lead in edge computing Western Digital announces new memory extension drive Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada