https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/mcafee-mpower-conference-focuses-on-ai-and-the-cloud/422841
McAfee MPOWER conference focuses on AI and the cloud | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. McAfee CEO Chris Young delivers his closing remarks at the MPOWER Cybersecurity Summit in Las Vegas. Photo from Twitter. Emerging Tech McAfee MPOWER conference focuses on AI and the cloud Lynn Greiner @lynngr Published: October 15th, 2019 It’s about time. That was the theme of security firm McAfee’s MPOWER conference in Las Vegas, where it unveiled new products and a platform that offers threat protection across the entire environment from device to cloud to help security professionals detect and deal with threats more quickly. “Time is our most valuable resource,” chief executive officer Chris Young told attendees, adding that McAfee detects five new threats per second. In fact, on the first day of the conference, according to the continuously updating scrolling display above the stage, by 9 am Pacific time over 164,000 new threats had been discovered. Adversaries use time to their advantage, Young noted. Ransomware, for example, uses time pressure to force payment. Adversaries will also infect systems on a network with malware, which then remains dormant for a while, learning traffic patterns and seeing what’s important before deciding what to attack, perhaps months after the initial infection. Newly announced MVISION Insights gives security professionals visibility into the threat landscape using telemetry from the more than one billion sensors worldwide monitored by McAfee. Using machine learning, it tracks and makes sense of the data, providing information on what threats are of greatest risk to an organization and offering suggestions on appropriate actions. Users can then click directly into the right tool to deal with the threat. Insight’s open application programming interfaces (APIs) allow customers to add their own inputs to the mix to generate context. MVISION Cloud, the cloud access security broker (CASB) that came from McAfee’s 2018 acquisition of Skyhigh Networks, natively integrates security tools into the cloud. “We’ve gone from cloud fear to cloud friendly to cloud first. Security is not only about protecting data and eliminating risk, it’s about enabling the customer,” said Rajiv Gupta, senior vice-president of the cloud security business unit at McAfee (formerly CEO and co-founder of Skyhigh Networks). Hackers are increasingly landing in the cloud by taking advantage of misconfigurations, he pointed out, and even when a site is well configured to begin with, drift happens over time that creates vulnerabilities. Combining traditional CASB controls and analytics can mitigate the risk. MVISION Cloud also includes a Cloud Value and Maturity Advisor that provides an objective and peer-compared assessment of a company’s cloud security posture using industry-standard benchmarks, as well as recommendations for improvement. McAfee Unified Cloud Edge converges the capabilities of MVISION cloud, McAfee Web Gateway, and McAfee Data Loss Prevention through MVISION ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) to provide a single place for security administrators to investigate security events, run reports, enforce a single user experience, and establish and enforce policies across an organization. Web Gateway and CASB pulled together “is a beautiful thing,” said Said Scott Howitt, senior vice-president and chief information security officer of MGM Resorts International. Ash Kulkarni, executive vice-president and chief product officer at McAfee, noted, “Data protection has to be consistent across endpoints, network, and cloud. It’s a recipe for disaster using multiple engines and sets of policies; you need one engine, one set of policies, applied consistently.” Despite the focus on cloud, McAfee’s endpoint security product, ENS 10.7, wasn’t neglected. It received several new features, chief among which were Story Graph, a visualization tool, and rollback remediation that can restore a system to a known good state when malware activity is detected. Canada, noted Bryan Rutledge, McAfee’s regional vice-president & country manager for Canada, is a bit behind the U.S. in adoption of cloud security, and are also suffering from the universal security talent shortage. McAfee is founding sponsor of a Masters program at the University of Guelph designed to help remedy the latter problem. The company has built a lab there so students can get hands-on experience and thus be valuable in the marketplace more quickly. Rutledge is also focusing efforts on educating both customers and partners about cloud security. “We won’t stop until we make the cloud the most secure platform for business,” said Young. Lynn Greiner’s flight and travel accommodations were paid for by McAfee. McAfee did not review this article prior to publication. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech cyber security awareness month, McAfee, mpower Hashtag Trending - Amazon unstoppable?; Cook explains Hong Kong app removal; Toys R Us is back Renfrew County uses drones to deliver defib units 7 minutes faster than ambulances About Lynn Greiner Lynn Greiner has been interpreting tech for businesses for over 20 years and has worked in the industry as well as writing about it, giving her a unique perspective into the issues companies face. She has both IT credentials and a business degree. Follow Follow @lynngr on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content RSA Conference: Democratize security, says Cisco official, and McAfee urges work on quantum-resistant solutions CIRA strikes deals with Finland, Poland and New Zealand Cyber Security Awareness Month: Advice from five expert sources Fortinet program that retrains military vets to tackle cyber threats grows in Canada Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada