https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-jan-16-2019-why-security-testing-is-vital-and-keep-away-from-construction-sites/414170
Cyber Security Today: Jan. 16, 2019 — Why security testing is vital, and keep away from construction sites | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today: Jan. 16, 2019 — Why security testing is vital, and keep away from construction sites Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: January 16th, 2019 Why security testing is vital before releasing products, Nova Scotia privacy commissioner critical of the government, and keep away from construction sites It often doesn’t take much effort for hackers to successfully do their jobs. Simple mistakes by companies make it easy. The news site TechCrunch this week carried a prime example. A security researcher said he was able to take over the websites of anyone who used one of several large hosting companies, big names like OVH, iPage and Bluehost. The bugs have now been fixed, but website owners could have been victimized by clicking on a link in an email or a tweet. That would have started a process allowing an attacker to insert their email address as the site’s owner. Ultimately that would allow the attacker to take over the account. This was just one of the problems the researcher discovered. Obviously, many organizations still aren’t doing enough security testing of their products. That, by the way, was also the conclusion of Nova Scotia’s privacy commissioner after looking into last year’s data breaches through the province’s new access to information website. Because there wasn’t adequate testing by the government before the new site went live, serious vulnerabilities weren’t discovered. As a result, hackers realized that just by changing document numbers in the URL address at the top of a web page they could get hold of thousands of documents, some of which had personal information on 740 people. Not only didn’t the government properly test the site, it ignored a recommendation for a security threat assessment from its own security staff — and from the privacy commissioner. My full story on this report is available here. Here’s some chilling news to think about next time you walk beside a construction site: Those cranes and hoists workers use may be vulnerable to an attack if they rely on radio communications. Researchers at security vendor Trend Micro have discovered several systems that rely on radio controllers, including those used in transportation and mining sectors, could be hacked and taken over. Manufacturers have been notified and are patching the systems. If you want to access the full report on this, there’s a link here. Finally, If you’re an IT professional there’s a Cloud Security Summit tomorrow, Jan. 17, in downtown Toronto. Admission is free and registration details can be found here. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, OVH, podcasts, radio frequency Canada is a prime target for cybersecurity attacks in 2019 BlackBerry CEO John Chen says business world 'demanding' secure IoT About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada