https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/breaking-down-cybersecurity-best-practices-one-castle-wall-at-a-time/425012
Breaking down cybersecurity best practices one castle wall at a time | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Participants and organizers of the recent Breach the Keep event in Durham College. Photo submitted. Education Privacy & Security Breaking down cybersecurity best practices one castle wall at a time Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: December 10th, 2019 It’s not a situation Marilyn Gallagher-Crawford is accustomed to, but last week the councillor for Ajax Ward 1 found herself fending off a small army of foot soldiers trying to penetrate her castle. As the Queen and one of the primary decision-makers of the medieval base, ensuring the castle wasn’t breached was one of her main responsibilities. But she made mistakes, she said. Those foot soldiers rushing the southern wall weren’t met with the proper defenses. Instead, the majority of the castle’s defenses were aimed at the draw bridge out front, where another wave of attacks was taking place. The draw bridge attack turned out to be a distraction. The absence of trained professionals guarding the back door turned out to cost the castle its keep. “If I were to do it again, I would do things a lot differently,” Crawford told IT World Canada. Crawford was one of nine participants in the “Breach the Keep” event at Durham College Dec. 2. The event, organized by information security advisor Michael Ball and students from the college, is the early version of what Ball hopes to be a series of tabletop games for business and public sector leaders seeking a different set of lens to learn about cybersecurity best practices. Crawford was the only councillor on site but was accompanied by other community leaders and tech enthusiasts. Inspired heavily by the popular Dungeons and Dragons tabletop games, Breach the Keep is an early version of a packaged product Ball hopes to get off the ground in the coming months. Ball has multiple scenarios wrapped around the medieval aesthetics that thrust participants into one of several unique circumstances under which they have to navigate a growing threat – or threats – and defend critical data, represented by the castle’s keep. Michael Ball breaks down the rules of the game during the Breach the Keep event in Durham College. Photo submitted. “The moat just outside the castle walls represent an intrusion prevention system. The wall itself represents a firewall. The four corners of the castle have a watchtower, representing intrusion monitoring. And all of these layers defend the keep – the data and other critical systems, which you want to protect,” Ball explained. As the Dungeon Master, which is essentially the game’s narrator, Ball is confident this new spin on cybersecurity awareness training will stick with participants. It’s rare when these types of tabletop games address multiple angles of cybersecurity simultaneously. “I’m pretty happy with it right now,” he told the publication, adding the game is currently what he would describe in beta stage. “It’s interesting how easily a breach scenario maps onto [a medieval castle].” While Toronto largely dominates the spotlight when it comes to Canada’s growing tech hubs, the Oshawa region just outside the city is quickly becoming a landing pad for incoming talent. A recent report from real estate services firm CBRE notes that Toronto’s tech talent pool grew by 54 per cent between 2013 and 2018 to reach 228,500, but the annual ranking saw Hamilton, Ont., crack the top 10 for the first time, while Oshawa went up by two to rank number 12. The April opening of an innovation accelerator, known as “1855 Whitby” in the former provincial land registry office in the Durham region near Oshawa is expected to boost the region’s innovation chops by attracting new talent. Matching this growth is a heightened sense of cyber awareness, as news of breaches impacting the area’s municipalities, school boards, and hospitals shows no sign of slowing down. Crawford referenced a successful phishing scam earlier this year that cost the City of Burlington CA$503,000. More recently, the town of Woodstock Ont., confirmed that the ransomware attack it sustained in September is set to cost the municipality more than $667,000. According to local reporting, the town didn’t even pay the ransom, but the damage was still significant. These types of stories, she said, keep her up at night. Investing more into cybersecurity, and more importantly, understanding where the municipality’s gaps currently exist is top of mind for city staff outside of the IT department. Hearing more about these types of attacks in the news has put city councillors on high alert as well, indicated Crawford. One of the things Crawford learned about during the Breach the Keep exercise was just how sneaky threat actors can be, and when they combine that stealthy activity with sophisticated malware, the result can be overwhelming. “[$503,000] is an astronomical amount,” she said. “The money you put into cybersecurity today could, in fact, save you an incredible amount of money in the future.” Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Education, Privacy & Security CISO, durham region, games, postmedia, tabletop North announces Focals 2.0 smart glasses Hashtag Trending - $52,000 Mac Pro, self-driving commercial truck, Beijing replaces foreign tech About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada