https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/executive-compromise-attacks-dont-always-have-malicious-links-report/408569
Executive compromise attacks don't always have malicious links: Report | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Photo by weerapatkiatdumrong from Thinkstock.com Privacy & Security Executive compromise attacks don’t always have malicious links: Report Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: September 4th, 2018 For an attacker, spear phishing is an efficient way of getting work done. Business Email Compromise (BEC) schemes (sometimes also called business executive compromise), which specifically target executives or mid-level finance officials, can be particularly useful: Get an official to click on a link, infect the target and there’s high-level access to an organization. Or, get the official to wire money to a link and rake in the cash. To counter this, security awareness defensive techniques include training employees to watch out for suspicious links in email, text or social media messages. But as a recent analysis of 3,000 email attacks on Barracuda Networks customers shows, not all initial messages from an attacker will have a link. Perhaps realizing that organizations are watching for suspicious communications attackers increasingly first try to establish rapport with a victim. So in the sample looked at, only 40 per cent of messages had a link. Twelve per cent tried first to establish rapport, with messages like “Are you online now?” or “Are you available for something urgent?”. Then, often, the follow-up message has a malicious link to an infected document, a web site or a bank account controlled by the attacker. In the sample the company looked at, just under half (46.9) per cent of attacks wanted targets to make a wire transfer to a phony person/account, 40.1 per cent wanted the target to click on a link, and 12.2 per cent wanted the victim to forward personally identifiable information (including that of other employees, such as lists of staffers and their social insurance numbers purportedly for tax purposes). Related Articles Email compromise could cost an organization up to $2 million: Report Organizations are increasingly turning to software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings to save money on on-premise applications. Improved security is also touted as... August 1st, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC New business executive email scam detected by IBM Business email compromise scams are some of the most difficult yet lucrative targeted cons that attackers can create. According to... February 23rd, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC One point from this analysis is that with less than half of messages having a suspicious link it’s harder for technology (anti-virus, gateways etc.) to intercept many of these attacks. The analysis of the sample also notes that while senior officials are often targets of BEC attacks, just over half also went to others in the organization who might be influenced by a message seemingly coming from the C-suite. Barraduca recommends that wire transfers should never go out without a confirming in-person conversation or phone call with a responsible company official. Use additional care with phone calls if the only contact information is included in the potentially fraudulent email, the warning adds. The sample also shows that in almost 43 per cent of the time messages pretended to come from a company’s CEO. So employees should be warned to take extra care acting on email from that account. “If the CEO is making a request or if it is unusual to receive email from the CEO, the user should confirm the legitimacy before taking action.” These and other techniques should be part of a regular security awareness training program. The Barracuda analysis is in a blog that can be read here. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security email, security strategies Hashtag Trending - Apple to host a special event; Will Lyft take over Uber in its IPO?; Google and Mastercard partner to track offline purchases I will never understand how you heathens survive without physical keyboards About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada