https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-the-queen-posts-to-instagram-facebook-users-abandon-ship-tim-apple/415766
Hashtag Trending – The Queen posts to Instagram; Facebook users abandon ship; Tim Apple | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – The Queen posts to Instagram; Facebook users abandon ship; Tim Apple Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: March 8th, 2019 The Queen has posted to Instagram, Facebook users in the U.S. are abandoning ship – fast, and Tim Cook has changed his Twitter name to Tim Apple. The time has come for the title of social media queen to be reclaimed by the one and only. The Queen has published her first ever Instagram post during a visit to the Science Museum celebrating the technology of communications. The monarch was shown iconic communications objects from throughout history after she formally opened the museum’s new Smith Centre. Her Instagram message, which was shared by the Queen to her 4.6 million followers, was shared with images of a letter written to Prince Albert pulled from the Royal Archives. The post specifically referenced the ‘Analytical Engine’ upon which the first computer programmes were created by Ada Lovelace, a daughter of Lord Byron. The engine was the invention of Charles Babbage, who is credited as the world’s first computer pioneer. Facebook’s purchase of Instagram all those years ago doesn’t seem like a bad idea, huh? A new study from Edison Research says Facebook users are abandoning the platform at a rapid pace. Reddit users are buzzing about the estimated 15 million fewer Facebook users in the United States compared to 2017, the biggest drop being in the 12-34 year-old age group, according to the report..While the survey didn’t specifically ask users why they’ve abandoned ship, it’s hard not to point at the recent bad press Facebook has garnered due to privacy issues and that whole Cambridge Analytica scandal. There is also the possibility that young people don’t find Facebook appealing and are instead gravitating towards Instagram and Snapchat, something the report suggests as well. And lastly, trending on Twitter, Tim Cook’s decision to change his name to Tim Apple on Twitter is putting a smile on a lot of faces. Following President Donald Trump’s inability to call Tim Cook by his real name, instead opting for Tim Apple during a recent press conference with Apple’s CEO, Cook appears to have used the mix-up as inspiration. Tim Cook’s last name on Twitter has been replaced by the Apple symbol, and users, of course, noticed immediately and lost their minds. It’s led to other Tech CEOs receiving their own name upgrades, including, Satya Microsoft and Jeff AmazonWashingtonPost. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Careers Facebook, hashtag trending, podcasts, Tim Cook, twitter RSA Conference 2019: How to reduce the odds of business email fraud Cyber Security Today: March 8, 2018 -- Encourage women to be cyber warriors, avoid business email compromise and be less visible online About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada