https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-roku-releases-pet-remote-microsoft-bans-april-fools-pranks-googles-best-april-fools-jokes-from-2018/416491
Hashtag Trending – Roku releases pet remote; Microsoft bans April Fools pranks; Google's best April Fools jokes from 2018 | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Roku releases pet remote; Microsoft bans April Fools pranks; Google’s best April Fools jokes from 2018 Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: April 1st, 2019 Roku releases the perfect remote for your pets; Microsoft bans April Fools Day pranks; and we take a look back at some of Google’s best April Fool’s jokes. It’s all the tech news that’s popular right now. Welcome to Hashtag Trending. It’s Monday, April 1st, and I’m your host, Buckley Smith. Have you ever wondered how hard it must be for your pet to binge watch Paw Patrol while you are gone for the day? Wonder no more! Streaming device manufacturer, Roku, has released the brand new Press Paws Remote. And that is spelled P-A-W-S. This innovative device features controls designed specifically for your furry friend’s hands, bark assisted controls, and a built-in subwoofer. Get it? SubWOOFer! Just kidding! Of course it is April Fools Day and you should be ready to see plenty of pranks like this coming from tech companies across the world today. But one company you will not see any April Fools jokes from is Microsoft. In an internal memo, Microsoft has instructed its employees to not participate in any public pranks. Microsoft’s chief marketing officer Chris Capossela, said that “data tells us these stunts have limited positive impact and can actually result in unwanted news cycles.” What a party pooper. So while Microsoft may be bowing out of the show, Google has long been notorious for its clever and hilarious April Fools jokes. Some of the highlights in the past include such knee-slappers as turning Google Maps into a big game of Where’s Waldo, announcing the release of a Google Cloud API for hummus, and the fake release of a bad joke detector add on to their Files Go app. And there are sure to be many more hijinx like that this year. So keep your eyes open and your funny bone intact, it is sure to be a fun day! That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Buckley Smith, thanks for listening. Careers hashtag trending Zuckerberg calls for guidance from governments on defining what social media should ban Get meaningful consent when collecting voter data, federal parties told About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Hashtag Trending – Gates says US botched COVID-19 response; Snopes overwhelmed; Plague Inc. flips the script Hashtag Trending – 3D-printed ventilators; Drones yell at people to stay indoors; Banning targeted ads Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada