https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-apple-reverses-stance-on-repairs-coffee-shop-etiquette-facebook-addiction/421402
Hashtag Trending – Apple reverses stance on repairs, coffee shop etiquette, Facebook addiction | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Apple reverses stance on repairs, coffee shop etiquette, Facebook addiction Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: August 30th, 2019 Apple reverses its stance on iPhone repairs, some tips on proper coffee shop etiquette for those who write in them a lot, and research finds heavy Facebook users make impaired decisions like drug addicts. Apple has thrown in the towel. Sort of. Trending on Reddit is the news that Apple is launching a new program in the U.S. that will give independent repair shops access to parts for common out of warranty repairs. The program is set to roll out in more countries soon. The move also comes after Apple fought California’s proposed right-to-repair bill, which would require companies like Apple to make repair information, and the necessary parts, available to device owners and independent repair shops. While the new program is free to Join, Apple says shops will be required to have an Apple-certified technical who has taken a preparatory course provided by the company. You walk into a coffee shop nowadays and what do you see? Probably a dozen people typing away at laptops, taking up all the space – there’s at least one person in the corner with an extension cord running across the store. It’s a discussion that’s trending on LinkedIn right now, and many are linking to a story from the Wall Street Journal that says this growing trend needs to be refined with some new etiquette. The article suggests people need to be a bit more self-aware about how much space you’re taking up, and how long you’re sitting at a cafe to begin with. People need to hang out more at local libraries. Sure, they probably don’t serve coffee there, but it’s just such a better work environment. And lastly, also trending on Reddit – a research from Michigan State University says social media addiction is no joke. Published in the Journal of Behavioral Addictions says people who use social media sites heavily display some of the same behavioral traits that someone addicted to cocaine or heroin. It’s an interesting study that delves a bit deeper into something we already know – which is that social media is changing human behaviour. A link to the full study can be found on ITWorldCanada.com That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace Apple, hashtag trending, podcasts Upcoming Huawei flagship phones will not be getting Google apps Cyber Security Today - How to be safe using social media About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada