https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/unprotected-database-of-1-5-million-freedom-mobile-subscribers-found-by-security-company/417772
Unprotected database of thousands of Freedom Mobile subscribers found by security company | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Unprotected database of thousands of Freedom Mobile subscribers found by security company Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: May 7th, 2019 Security researchers say they found an unprotected database with personal and credit card information on thousands of Freedom Mobile subscribers on the Internet. vpnMentor, which rates consumer virtual private networks (VPNs), said Tuesday that in April its staff found an unencrypted database of the Calgary-based wireless carrier with five million records. The information included email address home and mobile phone number home addresses date of birth customer type IP address connected to payment method unencrypted credit card and CVV numbers credit score responses from Equifax and other corporations, with reasons for acceptance/rejection. According to a blog and press release issued by vpnMentor, the database was found April 17. It took several attempts, but the carrier finally responded to email messages on April 24. That day, vpnMentor says, the database was secured. However, in a statement Freedom Mobile says the database was secured April 23. Below is a screen shot of the information vpnMentor says it was able to see. Personal information has been blacked out. Freedom Mobile (formerly Wind Mobile) is owned by Shaw Communications. In a statement to IT World Canada , Chethan Lakshman, the carrier’s vice- president of external affairs said the exposed database was held by “a new external third-party vendor, Apptium Technologies.” It blamed the problem to “a misconfigured server managed by Apptium,” which had been hired to streamline the carrier’s retail customer support processes. While vpnMentor thought the data covered 1.5 million subscribers, Lakshman said his companies believes approximately 15,000 customers are affected. “Any reference to 1.5 million customers affected is inaccurate,” the the statement said. “The researchers could be referencing the number of lines of data exposed but it is certainly not a reference to the number of customers affected. If it is a reference to the number of lines of data, it’s worth noting that some customer records could have hundreds or thousands of lines of data, including substantial amounts that do not include any personal information.” Those affected, Lakshman said, are customers who had opened or made any changes to their accounts at 17 Freedom Mobile retail locations between March 25 and April 15, and any customers who made changes or opened accounts on April 16. The carrier is conducting a full forensic investigation. The internal systems of Freedom Mobile or Shaw Communications were not compromised as part of this third party vendor security exposure, the company said. According to a spokesperson for the Office of the Privacy Commissioner, the OPC was notified Monday afternoon of the breach. Under the new rules of the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA), companies that come under federal legislation must report breaches of their data security controls. Freedom Mobile’s web site has an extensive privacy and security statement. It says in part that “We maintain physical, electronic, and procedural safeguards designed to protect your Personal Information. We review such safeguards on a periodic basis and revise them if necessary. We take reasonable steps designed to limit access to Personal Information only to persons as provided for in this Privacy Policy. ” (This story was updated from the original to include comments made by Freedom Mobile. The original headline was also changed) Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security data breach, Freedom Mobile, security strategies Hashtag Trending - Canadians distrust social media; Super Micro moves production; Amazon’s delivery network dominates Google releases Google Pixel 3a and Pixel 3a XL for the midrange market About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada