https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/tips-on-casl-compliance-and-how-to-avoid-being-fined/428461
Tips on CASL compliance and how to avoid being fined | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Public Sector Tips on CASL compliance and how to avoid being fined Tom Li @itworldca Published: March 17th, 2020 Complying with the Canadian Anti-Spam Law (CASL) is a tricky business. On July 1, 2014, Canada enacted the CASL to curb rampant electronic and SMS spamming. It established five types of consent a consumer must provide before receiving an advertisement: Personal relationship Express consent Implied consent for businesses Implied consent for non-business relationships Conspicuous B2B consent Without these approvals, a company’s message could be considered spam. Derek Lackey, managing director for Newport Thomson, spoke at the DX3 tradeshow in Toronto on March 10 to share some tips to avoid being hit with a CASL violation. In recent years, Canada, along with the rest of the world, has seen a surge in the number of SMS spam and call scams. The CASL has been updated to specifically address this problem. Although relatively unenforced, Lackey said that just having an anti-spam law is working. In 2019, the single largest fine was $100,000 made to the CEO of nCrowd, a social commerce platform. According to the CRTC notice of violation, the CEO was held personally responsible for allowing their email advertisements to omit a functional unsubscribe button, which violated CASL. The company announced foreclosure soon after. But just because there haven’t been any major cases does not mean that the law is overlooked. Lackey said that if enough people set off an alarm bell, the CRTC will take action. Because the CRTC needs to enforce compliance, Lackey said communication is key when the commission asks for proof of consent. “The ones they [CRTC] hate are the ones who avoid them. They call you and ask you for something and you don’t return the call. They chase you down, you avoid them. I can guarantee you’re going to get a million-dollar fine when you do that. Every serious fine has been in companies that tried to avoid them…if they call, answer them.” Communication can also determine the size of fines. Lackey said there’s a higher chance of negotiating a smaller fine if the violating party cooperates and bring their system up to compliance. Penalties range from a simple warning letter to issuing a full-on injunction. It’s also important for consumers to understand when they’re giving consent. Companies can sometimes assume implied consent without the customer explicitly stating that they’ve signed up for advertising. “I get emails from Hudson Bay. And the reason I’m getting it is I meet the measure of implied consent, though I know I didn’t [give] express consent,” said Lackey. “I might meet the measure of implied but I don’t know it. So I would be suing them, and it would be a nuisance lawsuit because they actually had consent under the implied rules.” Regardless of the type, Lackey said all marketers need to have proof of consent documented and ready to present when the CRTC comes knocking. “I don’t care how old or legacy your technology is, how decentralized it is, if you execute a reference centre properly, and keep it up to date.” Lackey also noted that a manual on advertising and proper employee training can make a CRTC audit much easier. “Those are the easy parts. We just have to pay attention to them and do it.” As an added precaution, Lackey warned that just because you’re a messenger doesn’t mean you’re off the hook. CASL not only prohibits illegal solicitation but also the act of aiding it. For example, if a company sends its illegal spam through an email service, the email service itself could face legal ramifications as it’s technically aiding the operation. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Public Sector Hashtag Trending - Google tackles COVID-19 with new website; Microsoft Teams goes down; Bill Gates exits Microsoft’s board COVID-19: BlackBerry, Citrix among firms seeing leap in remote access solution sales About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: Myth busting: Seven reasons not to submit a Digital Transformation Award nomination Sponsored By: AMC Convergence of the titans: Today’s top technologies meet in Toronto Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Sales vs. Marketing: Why can’t we be friends? Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada