https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/new-ransomware-strain-appears-to-target-linux-web-servers/421542
New ransomware strain appears to target Linux web servers | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security New ransomware strain appears to target Linux web servers Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: September 6th, 2019 A new strain of ransomware has infected thousands of Linux web servers in the past two months, according to a news report. ZDNet said this morning that the strain is dubbed Lilocked, which is the extension the malware puts on infected files. Lilocked doesn’t encrypt system files, according to the news story, just a small subset of file extensions, such as HTML, SHTML, JS, CSS, PHP, INI, and various image file formats. As a result, infected servers continue to run normally. ZDNet reported that the French security researcher Benkow has calculated that Lilocked has encrypted more than 6,700 servers, many of which have been indexed and cached in Google search results. However, ZDnet noted the number of victims is suspected to be much much higher. Not all Linux systems run web servers, it points out, and there are many other infected systems that haven’t been indexed in Google search results. Victims are asked to transfer 0.030 Bitcoin (worth roughly US$325) to a digital wallet. At this early stage the way those behind Lilocked breaches servers and encrypts their content isn’t known. The news story says a thread on a Russian-speaking forum theorizes it might be targeting systems running outdated Exim (email) software. It also mentions that the ransomware managed to get root access to servers by unknown means. Security experts have suggested that servers must be protected through strong passwords, multi-factor authentication and regular patching. First reports of infections date to mid-July, says the news story, after some victims uploaded the Lilocked ransom note/demand on ID Ransomware, a website for identifying the name of the ransomware that infected a victim’s system. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security ransomware, security strategies Five steps to a better ransomware response plan Hashtag Trending - Yahoo goes down, an Android update, Canadian cybersecurity talent shortage About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada