https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-a-repair-tech-says-apple-u-s-customs-seized-goods-spotify-reinventing-soundtracks-tim-cook-calls-bloomberg-to-retract-story/410554
Hashtag Trending: A repair tech says Apple, U.S. customs seized goods; Spotify reinventing soundtracks; Tim Cook calls Bloomberg to retract story | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Opinion Hashtag Trending: A repair tech says Apple, U.S. customs seized goods; Spotify reinventing soundtracks; Tim Cook calls Bloomberg to retract story Shruti Shekar @shruti_shekar Published: October 22nd, 2018 Up first on Reddit, a New York-based computer repair technician says a recent order of Apple batteries were seized by Apple and the U.S. customs a few days after the CBC put out an investigation on Apple’s repair practices. That investigation revealed Apple had controversial business practices after allegations were made of overpriced repair charges. It also detailed the battery/slowdown scandal. Louis Rossmann, who participated in the CBC investigation, said in a YouTube video that a shipment of 20 Macbook batteries was seized a few days after The National did the segment. Rossman said the batteries, costing more than $1000 US, were legitimate but Apple markings on the batteries made them seem counterfeit. Rossman claims he has been ordering parts for years and this was the first time his products were seized. Rossman says he wants to fight the ruling. Next up on LinkedIn, Spotify wants to disrupt the movie soundtrack album industry and plans to release the music to Jonah Hill’s new movie “Mid90s” as a playlist. Rather than an album that’s distributed by a label, Spotify consumers will be able to listen to the initial 15 songs from the movie, Spotify noted that more songs will be available soon. A report on the Wall Street Journal said no money changed hands, and it’s the latest example of how an album gives into forming a playlist and how people’s listening habits have changed. Finally trending on Twitter, Apple’s CEO Tim Cook is calling on Bloomberg to retract a story that alleges that Chinese spies compromised a company server by using malicious microchips. That report said Chinese spies were able to hack into tech infrastructure that belonged to Apple and Amazon by injecting tiny microchips. It’s the first time that Cook has gone on the record to speak against the allegations. “This did not happen. There is no truth to this,” Cook said in an interview with Buzzfeed News. Shortly after the Bloomberg story was published, Apple released a statement denying the claims. Opinion Turning cloud concepts into growth opportunities A lesson in Human Capital Management About Shruti Shekar Shruti Shekar is a video producer and reporter for IT World Canada. She was formerly a political reporter at The Hill Times and was based in Ottawa. Her beats included political culture, lobbying, telecom and technology, and the diplomatic community. She was also was the editor of The Lobby Monitor, and a reporter at The Wire Report; two trade publications that are part of The Hill Times. She received a MA in journalism from Western University and a double BA honours in communication studies and human rights from Carleton University. She was born in India, grew up mostly in Singapore and currently resides in Canada. Follow Follow @shruti_shekar on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: Myth busting: Seven reasons not to submit a Digital Transformation Award nomination Sponsored By: AMC Convergence of the titans: Today’s top technologies meet in Toronto Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Sales vs. Marketing: Why can’t we be friends? Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada