https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-net-neutrality-officially-dead-amazon-under-fire-for-chinese-factory-conditions/406163
Hashtag Trending – Net neutrality officially dead; Amazon under fire for Chinese factory conditions | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Leadership Mobility Public Sector Wireless & IoT Hashtag Trending – Net neutrality officially dead; Amazon under fire for Chinese factory conditions Eric Emin Wood @ericewood Published: June 12th, 2018 Federal net neutrality is officially dead in the U.S. A cyber attack lowers BitCoin’s value to around $7200. And working conditions at Chinese manufacturing giant Foxconn are causing headaches for another tech giant – this time, it’s Amazon. Trending on Reddit and LinkedIn: U.S. federal communications chair Ajit Pai’s repeal of net neutrality officially came into effect on Monday. The Obama-era regulation, which came into effect in June 2015 and required internet service providers to treat all data equally, was designed to prevent telecoms from charging sites and services for preferential treatment – and advocates warn that without the law in place, that’s exactly what’s likely to happen. So far, more than 20 states have filed lawsuits to keep the legislation in place, and because of those efforts, opponents of the repeal say very little is likely to change right away. Also from Reddit and LinkedIn: BitCoin’s value has dropped to a two-month low of $7,200 USD, after South Korean crypto exchange Coinrail reported a hack on Sunday. According to TechCrunch, $40 million USD in cryptocurrency was stolen during the hack. BitCoin’s drop might also be related to a recent Wall Steet Journal report that U.S. regulators are investigating four major crypto exchanges, including Coinbase and Bitstamp, for price manipulation. BitCoin is now worth less than half of its December 2017 high of nearly $20,000 U.S. However, it’s also worth about 150 per cent more than it was around this time last year, when it was worth around $2,800 USD. Also trending on LinkedIn: Another North American tech giant is under fire for its association with Chinese manufacturing giant Foxconn and its famously horrific working conditions. This time the client is Amazon, and the products involved are Echo speakers and Kindle e-readers, which according to advocacy group China Labor Watch are assembled at a factory where workers are required to put in more than 100 hours of overtime per month – a violation of Chinese labor laws – and are paid such low wages they depend on that overtime to maintain a decent standard of living. To its credit, Amazon conducted an audit of the factory in March and has asked Foxconn to address many of the issues identified in the report, according to Bloomberg. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership, Mobility, Public Sector, Wireless & IoT Amazon, bitcoin, Foxconn, hashtag trending, net neutrality, U.S. government 3 ways the 'AI Leader of the Year' is using Data for Good Machine learning in cyber security: It's only just starting About Eric Emin Wood Former IT World Canada associate editor turned consultant with public relations firm Porter Novelli. When not writing for the tech industry enjoys photography, movies, travelling, the Oxford comma, and will talk your ear off about animation if you give him an opening. Follow Follow @ericewood on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Hashtag Trending – Gates says US botched COVID-19 response; Snopes overwhelmed; Plague Inc. flips the script Hashtag Trending – 3D-printed ventilators; Drones yell at people to stay indoors; Banning targeted ads Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada