https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ceridian-says-it-plans-to-create-2000-jobs-in-canada-over-five-years/427192
Ceridian to create 2,000 jobs in Canada | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers IT Workplace Ceridian says it plans to create 2,000 jobs in Canada over five years Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: February 11th, 2020 Ceridian HCM Holding Inc. has announced it will be hiring 400 people in Canada in 2020, with plans to increase that number to 2,000 over the next five years. Those jobs will be spread out between Ceridian’s offices in Toronto, Ottawa, Montreal, Winnipeg, Halifax, and Calgary, with a focus on engineering, research and development, and consulting positions. One hundred of those initial 400 people hired are expected to be interns. “Ceridian is seeking outstanding Canadian talent, especially software developers and engineers, to create the next generation of ground-breaking HCM solutions,” said Leagh Turner, the president and chief operating officer for Ceridian, in the press release. David Ossip, Ceridian’s chairman and chief executive officer, said the company’s compounded growth rate of 54 per cent comes from rapid expansion in Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand, and that business in Canada includes 400,00 customers. He added Ceridian has “ambitious plans to extend the Dayforce solution to 20 countries in the next few years” and that its leadership team boasts strong Canadian connections. “We are exceptionally proud of the global success of our Canadian-led team and Canadian-built flagship product, Dayforce. Many of our senior leaders are Canadian, including our Chairman and CEO, president and COO, CTO, CIO, and CMO.” Careers, IT Workplace Ceridian Paranoid privacy tool can jam your smart speaker's microphone Hashtag Trending - IBM picks Slack, Samsung Unpacked, robotic workforce stops growing About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Canada’s top 10 best tech companies to work for in 2019 Workforce management software takes its rightful place on the world software stage David Ossip’s Ceridian — a Canadian success story Canada’s top 10 best tech companies to work for in 2018 Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada