https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/intel-urges-halt-to-installing-its-meltdown-spectre-patches/400973
Intel urges halt to installing its Meltdown/Spectre patches | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Privacy & Security Intel urges halt to installing its Meltdown/Spectre patches Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: January 22nd, 2018 After getting reports 11 days ago that some Intel-based computers were undergoing high amounts of reboots after installing patches to fix the Meltdown/Spectre vulnerabilities the chipmaker has asked infosec pros and vendors to stop using the fix until it has been fixed. “We recommend that OEMs, cloud service providers, system manufacturers, software vendors and end users stop deployment of current versions, as they may introduce higher than expected reboots and other unpredictable system behavior,” Navin Shenoy, executive vice-president and general manager of Intel’s data center group, said in a release Monday. The problem specifically involves PCs and servers on Intel’s fifth generation Core Broadwell and fourth-generation Haswell platforms, roughly released starting between 2013 and 2015. There was no indication of when Intel will release an updated fix, although the industry is very concerned about the ability of attackers to exploit the vulnerabilities. Intel has asked its partners to focus on testing early versions of the updated fix so it can accelerate the release. Related Articles Patching for Meltdown/Spectre: Make sure your AV supplier has the key The question of how fast to apply Microsoft's January 3 patches for the Meltdown/Spectre processor vulnerability -- and ones that... January 9th, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Intel CEO addresses Meltdown and Spectre directly at CES LAS VEGAS - On the eve of the opening of CES 2018 to the public, Intel Corp. CEO Brian Krzanich... January 9th, 2018 Brian Jackson @brianjjackson “For those concerned about system stability while we finalize the updated solutions,” Shenoy added, “we are also working with our OEM partners on the option to utilize a previous version of microcode that does not display these issues, but removes the Variant 2 (Spectre) mitigations. This would be delivered via a BIOS update, and would not impact mitigations for Variant 1 (Spectre) and Variant 3 (Meltdown).” “We believe it is important for OEMs and our customers to follow this guidance for all of the specified platforms listed below, as they may demonstrate higher than expected reboots and unpredictable system behavior. The progress we have made in identifying a root cause for Haswell and Broadwell will help us address issues on other platforms. Please be assured we are working quickly to address these issues.” Intel has a full list of affected systems here. This comes after Red Hat said it has stopped distributing its fix for the Spectre variant 2 vulnerability for users of Red Hat Enterprise Linux “due to instabilities introduced that are causing customer systems to not boot.” Customers are advised to contact their silicon vendor to get the latest microcode for their particular processor. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Privacy & Security Intel, Meltdown, Red Hat, spectre Apple partners with Malala Fund Hashtag Trending - Amazon’s cashier-less store, Canada tests blockchain, top tech firms could combine for $1 trillion in 2018 About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Vulnerability in Intel chipsets could lead to ‘chaos’, predicts report Intel processor constraint to continue in 2020, says HPE CES 2020: Intel shows off Tiger Lake processors with ‘double-digit performance gains’ and new graphics CES 2020: AMD’s new 64-core Threadripper processor, new graphics card, and Ryzen 4000 processor Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada