https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/france-calls-for-nations-to-condemn-mailicous-cyber-activities-at-opening-of-international-governance-forum/411695
France calls for nations to condemn malicious cyber activities at opening of International Governance Forum | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Public Sector France calls for nations to condemn malicious cyber activities at opening of International Governance Forum Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: November 12th, 2018 In an effort to spur stalled global talks on improving cyber security, France today called for nations “to work together prevent activity that intentionally and substantially damages the general availability or integrity of the public core of the Internet.” It says signatories to the “Paris Call for Trust and Security in Cyberspace” agree they “condemn malicious cyber activities in peacetime, notably the ones threatening or resulting in significant, indiscriminate or systemic harm to individuals and critical infrastructure and welcome calls for their improved protection.” “We welcome collaboration among governments, the private sector and civil society to create new cybersecurity standards that enable infrastructures and organizations to improve cyber protections.” UPDATE: Canada is among the supporters, along with Germany, Spain, Japan, Italy and the U.K. Tech companies include Microsoft, Nokia, IBM, Siemens, Dell, Cisco Systems, VMware, TrendMicro, HP Inc., Facebook, SAP, Juniper Networks and Oracle. For full list click here The document was issued by the host country at the opening today of the 13th annual meeting of the Internet Governance Forum in the French capital. UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres at opening of the Forum today in Paris The three-day meeting usually pulls in between 2,000 and 3,000 participants from governments, the private sector, civil society and the technical community. Sessions will deal with cyber security, internet governance, human rights and emerging technologies. It also comes just days after the United Nations committee on Disarmament and International Security (also known as the First Committee) proposed two — possibly conflicting — new groups to develop rules for states on responsible cyberspace conduct. The committee approved by a vote of 109 in favour to 45 against, with 16 abstentions, a Russian draft resolution (known as L.27.Rev.1) calling on the UN General Assembly to convene in 2019 an open-ended working group acting on a consensus basis to further develop the rules, norms and principles of responsible behaviour of countries. But it also approved a U.S. draft resolution (known as L.37), with a vote of 139 in favour (including Canada) to 11 against, with 18 abstentions, asking the Secretary-General and experts to continue to study possible co-operative measures to address existing and potential threats in the sphere of information security, including norms, rules and principles of responsible behaviour of countries. As international law professor Theodore Christakis, director of the Centre for International Security and European Studies, noted in a tweet, two bodies in the UN could be moving towards different cyber processes. His tweet also said that the official UN press release describing last week’s votes is “a must read to understand dire straits of multilateral cyber security negotiations. The press release hotes the United States delegate said “L.27/Rev.1” imposes a list of :unacceptable norms and language that is broadly unacceptable to many states, while “L.37” mirrors previous consensus draft resolutions.” On the other hand Russia said “L.37” would “take the international community backwards and result in a complete waste of resources, also being the product of extremely narrow interests of Western countries, especially the United States. However, “L.27/Rev.1” proposes to taking the negotiating process to a higher level that is more inclusive, open and democratic.” The Paris Call for action doesn’t list specific recommendations. Instead it urges nations to come together “to support to an open, secure, stable, accessible and peaceful cyberspace.” Signatories agree to — Prevent and recover from malicious cyber activities that threaten or cause significant, indiscriminate or systemic harm to individuals and critical infrastructure; – Prevent activity that intentionally and substantially damages the general availability or integrity of the public core of the Internet; – Strengthen our capacity to prevent malign interference by foreign actors aimed at undermining electoral processes through malicious cyber activities; – Prevent ICT-enabled theft of intellectual property, including trade secrets or other confidential business information, with the intent of providing competitive advantages to companies or commercial sector; – Develop ways to prevent the proliferation of malicious ICT tools and practices intended to cause harm; – Strengthen the security of digital processes, products and services, throughout their lifecycle and supply chain; – Support efforts to strengthen an advanced cyber hygiene for all actors; – Take steps to prevent non-State actors, including the private sector, from hacking-back, for their own purposes or those of other non-State actors; – Promote the widespread acceptance and implementation of international norms of responsible behavior as well as confidence-building measures in cyberspace. The work by countries, tech companies like Microsoft and international agencies comes not only as criminal activity online increases but also as allegations of state-sponsored cyber attacks are ramping up. A number of countries are trying to get international consensus on Internet governance, but progress is slow. Earlier this year a conference of the Internet and Jurisdiction Policy Network hosted by Canada passed the so-called Ottawa roadmap for next year’s Policy Network meeting in Berlin. That conference, hopefully, would create policy standards and operational solutions to be presented to countries. However, the state of international consensus — or, more acurately the lack of it — is more accurately reflected in last week’s UN conference. It can also be seen in last year’s failure of a United Nations advisory body of experts to come to a consensus on what rights states have to reply to online incidents. MORE TO COME Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Public Sector Internet governance, security strategies SAP to acquire survey software Qualtrics for $8 billion Christie Digital projects perfect backup record with Commvault About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada