https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/commvault-acquires-sds-startup-for-225-million/421543
Commvault acquires SDS startup for $225 million | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Software Commvault acquires SDS startup for $225 million Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: September 6th, 2019 Data management firm Commvault made a big acquisition this week. Commvault announced a definitive agreement to acquire Hedvig, a privately-held maker of cloud-based software defined storage solutions for US$225 million, marking the company’s first major acquisition since appointing Sanjay Mirchandani as CEO and president in February. Mirchandani described the move as a strong intersection of storage protection and data management. “We believe joining Hedvig’s innovative software-defined storage capabilities with Commvault’s industry-leading data protection reduces fragmentation and leapfrogs other solutions in the market,” he said in a press release. Hedvig was founded in 2012 by Avinash Lakshman, the inventor of Apache Cassandra – a free and open-source, distributed database management system – and one of the brains behind Amazon Dynamo. Joining forces with Commvault will lead to a new standard for the unification of storage and data management, indicated Lakshman. “We believe that the convergence of storage, multi cloud, and cloud native technologies, combined with our leadership in data management, will accelerate the movement towards modern applications built on containers and microservices,” said Lakshman. According to IDC, 70 per cent of organizations have a container development project underway and many of them will be rolled into production within the next two years. IDC also published a report about the acquisition after the announcement, and said the acquisition gives Commvault entry into the rapidly growing markets and differentiates it from its traditional data protection competitors. But it’s going to require a significant culture change for both sides. “Commvault is a more than 20-year old public company in a well-established and defined market. Hedvig is a privately held start-up in a rapidly developing market that must adjust to public life. Moreover, neither sales force understands the other’s selling motions or buyer behaviors today and the two companies have few resellers or partners in common. “Market motion matters here, as each company is selling into different buyer bases. Going forward, this may be a case where melding a unified company and finding synergies between different buying centers may be more difficult than the technical integration.” Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Software Commvault, mergers/acqusitions Cyber Security Today - Be careful buying child GPS trackers, company exposes customer email and a report on crimeware Amazon releases second-generation Fire TV Cube in Canada About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Three tips to keep your data safe when working from home Commvault goes metallic, becomes a business avenger VMware goes on a shopping spree, scoops up Carbon Black and Pivotal for a combined $4.8B Christie Digital projects perfect backup record with Commvault Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada