https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-another-call-for-iot-privacy-regulation-more-on-atlantas-ransomware-recovery/406105
Cyber Security Today: Another call for IoT privacy regulation, more on Atlanta's ransomware recovery | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today: Another call for IoT privacy regulation, more on Atlanta’s ransomware recovery Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: June 11th, 2018 Another organization calls for IoT privacy regulation, more on Atlanta’s ransomware recovery and maritime companies have to get ship-shape Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Monday June 11th. To hear the podcast, click on the arrow below: The rapid spread of Internet-connected devices could lead to the irreversible erosion of privacy unless governments and product manufacturers act. That’s one of the conclusions of a new report from the University of California’s Berkeley Center for Long-Term Cybersecurity and the Internet of Things Privacy Forum. People are losing the ability to monitor and control the data so-called smart connected devices are collecting about them, says the report. We often don’t realize what is done with our data by other companies. The risks are not always clear, particularly as companies can combine data from different sources to infer an individual’s habits, movements, and even emotions. The report says governments should regulate the privacy effects of the Internet of Things before mass sensor data collection becomes widespread. In addition, makers of connected products and services give buyers more data control. There’s a link to the centre’s report in a more detailed story of mine at ITWorldCanada.com Related Articles Government regulation of IoT coming, SecTor conference told Government safety regulation of the Internet of Things is coming, warns a prominent security expert, so technologists have to start... November 16th, 2017 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC What’s the price of not being ready for a ransomware attack? Plenty. In March I told you about an attack on the city of Atlanta. Well, it’s still trying to recover, because backup systems for its data as well as its production systems were locked. Security Week reports that the IT department will need $9.5 million this year to fix the damage. That’s on top of $3 million already spent. The city’s legal department alone lost more than 70 of its 77 computers and 10 years of legal documents. The police lost its dash-cam recordings archive. The lesson here is computer users at home and business IT administrators have to ensure their backup data recovery system can’t be infected. One way is to segregate the backup from the live network. Home users should beware of having a backup drive always connected to their computer. Backups also need to be scanned for possible infection. Finally, the maritime industry has been warned that ships at sea are just as vulnerable to hacking as homes and businesses on land. A British penetration company did a test showing how possible it is to hijack the satellite communications systems on commercial ships. Often the weakness is a password like “1234.” And if the ship’s satellite system can be hacked you might be able to get into the vessel’s internal network. From there, researchers said, it is possible to get into a poorly protected electronic chart system and make a crew member drive the ship off course. And they proved it is possible to get into a ship’s operational network, which controls the steering and engine. These flaws can be overcome by securely-designed systems. Ship security is in its infancy the report concludes. Most of the problems found were fixed years ago in mainstream IT systems. So it’s time to get ship-shape. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Play, or add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Build privacy controls into IoT devices now, report urges Making the most of a BYOD world About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada