https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-crafty-email-scammers-bad-webcam-security-and-watch-out-for-fleeceware/422243
Cyber Security Today — Crafty email scammers, bad webcam security and watch out for 'fleeceware' | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today — Crafty email scammers, bad webcam security and watch out for ‘fleeceware’ Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: September 27th, 2019 Crafty email scammers, bad webcam security and watch out for ‘fleeceware’ Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Friday September 27th, I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanada.com. To hear the podcast click on the arrow below: With all the malware distributed by email you’d think security companies could make a product that can scan a company’s email for suspicious links and issue alerts. Actually there is. It’s called a secure email gateway. Several companies sell them. However, according to a security firm called Confense, criminals have come up with a response: They’ve found a way to hide the real destination of a malicious email address. The scam works like this: The victim gets an email from what looks like a big company saying there’s an invoice. There’s a link to view the invoice. Click on it, and the victim gets taken to a fake Microsoft Office web site where you have to log in. The game, of course, is to steal usernames and passwords. The con is that the link to the invoice is disguised to fool secure email gateways. So, be wary of email with an invoice you’re not expecting. Be especially wary if you have to log into something after clicking on a link in an email. Here’s another warning about the poor security of webcams in your home. A security company called Wizcase says it found 15,000 on the Internet in countries around the world that a hacker could break into. The problem is surveillance cameras are made to give the owner remote access. But many don’t come with tough security. So before you buy, ask about the security features of a webcam. And when you install one, make sure the default configuration and password are changed. Administrators of the vBulletin software for website comment forums are being urged to take their systems offline until a security patch has been installed. Reports of a vulnerability that will allow an attacker to take over vBulletin were released earlier this week, and according to news reports was quickly being exploited. Users of the cloud version of vBulletin aren’t affected. You’ve heard of malware. You should also beware of “fleeceware.” That’s what security company Sophos calls Android apps that fleece you into paying big bucks for using them. Here’s how it works: The app says it can be used for a short trial period, after which you have to pay. The thing is, to get the app you have to give a credit card number. To cancel the app, not only do you have have to uninstall it, you also have to tell the developer it isn’t wanted anymore. If you don’t do both, you get charged hundreds of dollars. Google has removed 14 of these apps, but more are still in the Play store. Many of these apps are QR or barcode readers, calculators, tools to make animated GIFs, or photo editors. As Sophos notes, there are free versions available for all these utilities from well known and trusted developers. Apple released iOS 13 and iPad OS only this week and already there’s a bug: Some third-party keyboard apps could give themselves full access permission to anything you type, even if you’re turned full access off. This is important for people who don’t like the keyboard that iPhones or iPads come with. Instead they download another keyboard, like Gboard, Grammarly or Swifkey. Some of these never ask for full access, so they aren’t a problem. Other keyboards that have the option of full access are the problem. If you’re worried, you could uninstall the keyboard app and use the one that comes with the device until Apple issues a fix. That should be coming shortly. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Hashtag Trending - WeWork Canada in limbo, Match.com sued, Facebook standards confusion Ontario privacy commissioner worries about lack of data oversight in proposed Sidewalk Labs plan About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada