https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-top-3-telecom-stories-of-2019/425485
Hashtag Trending – Top 3 telecom stories of 2019 | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Top 3 telecom stories of 2019 IT World Canada Staff @itworldca Published: December 26th, 2019 As we close off 2019, we’ve dedicated an entire week to remember the key moments in tech and predict future trends. For the first episode, we talk about 2019’s biggest telecommunication stories. Firstly, the Canadian 600MHz spectrum auction marked a monumental moment for the 5G scene in Canada. Twelve telecom companies including Rogers, Telus, Freedom Mobile bid on 104 frequency licenses, raising CA$3.47 billion for Canada’s consolidated revenue fund. The 600 MHz spectrum will be used to transmit signals over long distances. In addition, the 3.5GHz mid-band auctions are expected to commence late next year. 3.5GHz, along with frequencies beyond 26GHz, will bring the ultra highspeed download speeds to urban areas. The 26GHz frequencies will be bid on starting 2021. If you think you’re paying too much for the internet, well, so does the Canadian Radio and Telecommunications Commission. In August of this year, the CRTC slashed internet wholesale prices for resellers by up to 77 per cent. Shortly after the announcement, several resellers including Teksavvy, Start.ca, and Distributel upgraded their customers’ plans for free. But after outcries from facility-based telcos, the Federal Court has temporarily suspended CRTC’s new pricing until further notice. While Canada is still working on its 5G deployment, Huawei has become an increasingly large elephant in the room. That’s to no one’s surprise; Canada is caught in the tension between the U.S. and China. The U.S. has been urging the world to ban Huawei from its 5G networks, but a few of Canada’s largest telcos, including Telus and SaskTel, currently use Huawei network gear. We were expecting a decision after the federal election, but Ottawa has remained silent on the issue. We’ll have to wait until 2020 for the government to reach a verdict on Huawei. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace 2020 vision, hashtag trending, podcasts Hashtag Trending - 3 tech predictions from the last decade that were very wrong Videoconference system stored data in open AWS bucket, says new report Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada