https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-googlers-upset-about-founders-departing-amazon-employees-at-risk-iphone-11-pro-stealing-location-data/424798
Hashtag Trending – Googlers upset about founders departing; Amazon employees at risk; iPhone 11 Pro stealing location data | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Googlers upset about founders departing; Amazon employees at risk; iPhone 11 Pro stealing location data Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: December 5th, 2019 Google employees are upset that founders left instead of fixing the culture; Amazon putting its employees at risk to fulfill holiday deliveries; iPhone 11 Pro collecting location data even when told not to Tuesday’s big news was the departure of Google’s founders Larry Page and Sergei Brin from its parent company Alphabet. And now it seems as though some of Google’s employees are upset about it, and it is trending on Reddit. Amid demonstrations from its employees about the culture of the company, including the mishandling of recent sexual harassment allegations, it appears some of the employees past and present hoped that the founders would step in to solve the culture issue within the company. They took to Twitter to voice their frustrations. One of those employees, Tom Karlo, who is a senior product manager at Google’s subsidiary Youtube tweeted: “There was a subset of employees who thought the founders might come back and set things right, but today they essentially endorsed the status quo.” As the holidays approach, the volume of packages being sent out of Amazon warehouses is unsurprisingly expected to surge. Because of its delivery time guarantees, some are questioning how much care Amazon is putting in to ensure the safety of its employees amid the shipping rush, and it is trending on LinkedIn. A report from the Atlantic showed that Amazon experienced a rate of almost 10 in every 100 full time workers being injured on the job in 2018, which more than doubles the industry average of 4 in every 100. When coupled with what employees have called “ruthless quotas” it is likely those rates will spike over the holidays unless the company puts a concerted effort into preventing this. And last up, we have a story that any owners of the iPhone 11 Pro will want to hear, and it is trending on Reddit. According to a story from 9 to 5 Mac, a security researched discovered that the device still collects location data, even if the settings should preclude it from doing so. The researcher, who goes by KrebsOnSecurity online, recorded the issue and reported it to Apple, who responded saying that this is expected behaviour as some system services require this information to be collected even when users have specified it not to. Either users need to start reading those infamously long terms and conditions better, or Apple simply failed to disclose this until now. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts University of Ottawa to open cybersecurity research hub There’s a fast lane to the future in digital health care About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada