https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/microsoft-brand-to-erase-nokia-soon/98541
Microsoft brand to erase Nokia soon | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Three Nokia Lumia smart phones on display at Microsoft Build 2014 Mobility Wireless & IoT Microsoft brand to erase Nokia soon Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: October 24th, 2014 The Microsoft brand will soon be stamped on smart phones at a wireless store near you. It’s not unexpected after the company bought the handset division of Nokia earlier this year, but in a blog this week Tuula Rytilä, Microsoft’s senior vice-president of marketing for phones said the Microsoft Lumia name will be appearing more. The Nokia brand will be kept, though, but for entry-level handsets. Nokia Lumia devices running Windows Phone 8x can be found at Rogers Communications and its Fido stores (the 5-in. Lumia 830, and the 4.5-in Lumia 635), Telus Corp. (the 830 and 635 and its Koodo stores (the 635). Related Articles Microsoft to lay off 18,000, most from new Nokia division Microsoft to finally get hands on Nokia A new Microsoft Lumia device will be released “soon,” Rytila said. “Microsoft remains committed to bringing amazing Lumia experiences with a strong portfolio of phones that offer something for everyone.” Not only will the names of the handsets change, but the Microsoft Lumia brand will be on corporate Web sites and social channels. Once dominant in cellphones, Nokia had to sell its handset division after making the same mistake as BlackBerry — not moving fast enough to shift to smart phones buyers wanted. Since taking over the unit, Microsoft has moved to get its finances in order by laying off thousands of staff. New devices will be its next order of business. Like BlackBerry, Microsoft faces a long fight against the only two profitable names in the business, Apple and its iPhone, and Samsung and its Galaxy S line. Buyers want iOS or Android devices. Despite its praised tile interface, they aren’t being lured by Windows. There are only a few features a handset maker can play with to differentiate themselves besides price: Making a premium body, crafting superb high definition screen, improving camera imaging. better voice command response. LG and Samsung hope curved handsets will set them apart from iPhones, while BlackBerry has the larger screen Passport with a physical keyboard. Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility, Wireless & IoT Microsoft, smart phones Why security awareness testing can be a risky business Sophisticated attack uses fake Web sites as bait About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Hiring neurodiverse people has given us an edge, says AirGate CEO Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada