https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/dont-accept-no-women-who-want-careers-in-cybersecurity-can-get-it-says-juniper-networks-exec/428360
Don't accept 'no,' women who want careers in cybersecurity can get one, says Juniper Networks exec | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. The Canadian Women in Cybersecurity conference attracted some 500 attendees. Howard Solomon photos Privacy & Security Don’t accept ‘no,’ women who want careers in cybersecurity can get one, says Juniper Networks exec Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: March 11th, 2020 Samantha Madrid’s path to becoming vice-president of Juniper Networks’ security business began in high school when she was told, ‘no’. It’s not uncommon for women to be told no, particularly those trying to build a career in IT and cybersecurity. Samantha Madrid, Juniper Networks She told several hundred at the Canadian Women In Cybersecurity conference Tuesday in Toronto that over the years, “there were a lot of ‘nos’ that I learned to navigate.” But this particular one galled her. It came from her high school guidance counsellor. Coming from a poor home in the U.S. and raised by a single mother, Madrid had told the advisor she planned to go to college. Among her dreams were becoming a business executive, a trial lawyer or a lobbyist arguing for people who didn’t have a voice. “You may want to take a different path,” the counsellor responded. “Not everybody is meant for college.” Madrid refused to accept that. “I remember thinking I wasn’t a bad student, but I was a decent student. I was varsity on the debate team, I was co-captain of the swim team. I was very competitive. “I was shell-shocked. I was devastated. I went home and cried all night long. “And then I got angry. And this was the point that defined who I am. Because I got so angry at her I said, ‘I’m going to show her that she is wrong.'” These kinds of experiences aren’t unusual for women, or some men, Madrid said. “You can either let it define you or let it motivate you.”‘ Related: Status of Canadian women in cybersecurity called ‘sad’ It’s easier to be a woman in cybersecurity today than it was 30 or 40 years ago, the conference heard. The profession and related roles, like risk managers — are still overwhelmingly male. Women still account for only 10 per cent of those in cybersecurity jobs in Canada. But there are some bright spots. One speaker noted a recent global report last year by the International Information System Security Certification Consortium, (ISC)², a non-profit which specializes in training and certifications for cybersecurity professionals, found women in cybersecurity are younger, boast more education and are moving into senior leadership roles at higher rates than men. And while they are paid less than men, the gap is less in younger age groups and for women in senior positions. Millenial-aged women making more than US$100,000 have overtaken their male counterparts. The conference featured a number of Canadian women who hold titles like vice-president or team leader in IT or risk management. Many recalled being the only woman in a networking class or on their first IT team. Most said their managers were supportive. But they also talked about the need for women in IT to find a mentor, be more assertive in their careers, to look for opportunities for promotion. To say yes. Related: Sizing up the gender gap in 2019 Madrid’s message was that obstacles — you need a certification, you can’t do that job — can be part of a career path. She offered these five tips: Be introspective. Be honest with yourself: Have you put in the effort, or is there a way to get around that obstacle? Didn’t get a promotion? Did you really deserve it? It’s easy to blame people for things that don’t go your way? Ask what you really want, be it in career or marriage. “Once you figure it out you do everything you can to make that happen.” In fact, when she interviews candidates for jobs she asks, ‘What are your blind spots?’ I don’t like writing so I partner with people to give me the confidence so I can write.” Everything is a choice. Everything in your life is the result of the choices you made. You may not have chosen the situation, but how you react is within your control. And choice that allows you to overcome that obstacle. “Often when we hear no … we think there is no path.” It’s not always about you. In a poor performance review, or someone was disrespectful, whatever, there may be more at play. Try to understand the other person’s point of view. “Early in my career, I was on a successful team … I wanted to make sure I was best on the team … It was always about ‘me,’ And she was bounced from the team for not being a team player. I realized that was 100 per cent my own doing. And I never made that mistake again.” Be adaptable. You will never be able to predict happens tomorrow but if you have the ability to adapt you are invaluable. “If someone says ‘no’ you have to be able to pivot around that. It does not mean you’re goal wrong and you’re not going to reach your end destination. But you may have to bob and weave, you may have to take an alternative path. Have your goal, but be flexible on your method.” Trust your gut. That’s the number one thing that derails people from achieving their goals. It’s why people who hear no step back. It’s why she didn’t step back when the counsellor suggested she shouldn’t think about going to college. Or when people suggested going to a company whose reputation had fallen wasn’t a good career move. By the way, after graduating from college Madrid worked for a U.S. state senator and didn’t like it. Along the way she picked up some aptitude for computers, so when a friend told her Cisco Systems was hiring, she read books about networking so was prepared and applied. And once she was hired took some certification courses. “You have to believe in yourself. It doesn’t matter the obstacle … At the end of the day, you are your only cheerleader and you are the only person who will make it or break it.” The conference was organized by SiberX, a Toronto-based training and skills development platform. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security women in IT Cyber Security Today - Don't be flattered by an award scam, Microsoft pushes MFA and why you need to patch fast Made-in-Vancouver product will rely on WiFi to detect weapons About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Why aren’t women in cybersecurity? Because sometimes they get groped at work Only one woman applied for information security job, a clear signal that ‘something isn’t working right’ The WIT Network Conference in photos How a nine-year-old’s question sparked a Canadian cybersecurity conference for women Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada