https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cisco-live-day-1-major-announcements-around-iot-and-multi-domain-integrations/418888
Cisco Live Day 1: Major announcements around IoT and multi-domain integrations | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Infrastructure Mobility Software Wireless & IoT Cisco Live Day 1: Major announcements around IoT and multi-domain integrations Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: June 11th, 2019 SAN DIEGO- Networking technology is in the midst of a serious shift as software becomes integral and hardware takes a back seat. The conversations so far at Cisco Live reflected this as only one of Cisco System Inc.’s four major announcements was related to hardware. Announced today was a new line of access points, switches and routers designed to facilitate IoT in rugged environments, new AI and machine learning capabilities, new multi-domain integrations, and an expansion to include software skills for networking. Chuck Robbins, the chief executive officer and chairman for Cisco, reflected this change in strategy and a need to listen to the needs of the customers to influence future innovation in his opening keynote. “As we think about our strategy, everything that we do is influenced by our discussions with you,” said Robbins. “Everything that we do, we understand that you are building and delivering more applications to your organization than you ever have before. We understand that the application is the closest layer of your technology to the business issue or the business opportunity that you’re trying to drive.” New products for IoT edge Connectivity no longer exists just between traditional devices like computers and cellular devices. IoT has opened up countless possibilities to bring non-traditional devices (like sensors and other monitoring devices) into the network allowing for deeper insights and quicker decision making. “It’s not just your computer, or your tablet, or your iPhone, for that matter. When we talk about things, we also need to think about a robot in a factory. We need to think about an ATM machine that’s connected. We need to think about a kiosk that’s connected as well,” said Liz Centoni, the senior vice-president and general manager of Cisco’s IoT business group. “The network is no longer contained in the campus or in the branch in an office. The network is actually going to be extended out into these domains; right into a distribution centre, into a first responders vehicle, into a refinery floor. So the question is, is our customer’s network actually built for that? Because the architecture needs to extend across all of these new and emerging domains. And you need automation, you need security, you need analytics, to be able to realize the true value of IoT in a simple and in a cost-effective way as well.” Centoni pointed out that of all of Cisco’s customers who innovated with IoT, only 40 per cent moved past the proof of concept stage. Cisco is hoping that its newest line of access points, switches, and routers designed to facilitate IoT in rugged environments will help solve this problem. The new products announced today include: -Catalyst Heavy Duty switches and access points which are managed by Cisco’s DNA Center and provide universal management, network assurance, and segmentation across campus, branch, and operational technology environments. -A new Cisco Industrial Router which supports Cisco SD-WAN capabilities to connect remote locations; which is the first SD-WAN solution built for industrial IoT. AI and machine learning for networking To reduce the workload of IT professionals, Cisco is throwing its weight behind AI and machine learning. This solution, which is available on a subscription model starting in August, is said to provide greater visibility with vital insights into the operations of your network and analyze any alerts and by referencing it to the usual activity will only provide alerts for serious threats, while also taking action on the tasks that do not require human intervention. By personalizing the capabilities and giving it time to analyze usual activity on your network, it will develop a customized baseline to analyze exactly which alerts are deemed necessary for action and which insights are essential to your network. “There’s a lot of complexity. And the reason this matters for a lot of the customers is that you have more and more things they have to deal with,” said Scott Harrell, the senior vice-president and general manager of Cisco’s enterprise networking business. “And that complexity can start to exceed the human’s ability to deal with this. And this is really where we need machines to come along and assist the humans.” For Jordi Marin Manzanara, the lead network engineer for King.com Ltd., in the short time they have had access to the solution, he said they have seen their alerts go down by about 80 per cent, as the trivial ones are now either being dealt with by AI or ignored because they’re not significant. Intent-based networking through multi-domain integrations Cisco announced solutions to help build the architecture that can span every domain of an intent-based network; including campus, branch, WAN, IoT, data centre, and cloud. “What you’re trying to accomplish in each of those areas are very different. Most IT organizations, they’re running a combination of all of this,” explained Harrell. “How do I actually take care of them and give them the best and optimal outcome as well as secure their environment? So we have to come along side them and help them do that in meaningful ways.” Mark Harrell explains some of the new networking capabilities announced at Cisco Live in San Diego. Photo by Buckley Smith. Through multi-domain integrations, Cisco said it will give its customers a secure and reliable experience no matter their method of connection, while meeting all of the unique needs of each of the previously mentioned networking domains. The integrations will create new end-to-end capabilities including: -Network segmentation. By integrating Cisco SD-Access with Cisco SD-WAN and Cisco Application Centric Infrastructure, Cisco said it will make it easier for IT teams to perform such actions on a consistent basis like authorizing, onboard, and segmenting users and devices across all of the domains. -Application Experience. To facilitate IT teams to raise application performance across an entire company, Cisco said it will not automatically convey application requirements between the data centre and the WAN. This will allow the network to choose the most optimal path and prioritize traffic even when applications are moved or altered. -Pervasive security. Cisco said it will be extending the ability to detect threats in encrypted traffics across public clouds. As well, it will protect all domains against threats; providing end-to-end security. New certifications for software skills Cisco already provides an extremely vast range of certifications. And now it is trying to bring those certifications up to date to its new software-centric strategy. And so today Cisco announced that it would be updating its certifications to include software skills and DevNet skills. Susie Wee, the senior vice-president and chief technology officer for Cisco DevNet, said it’s all about “how we can unleash those full capabilities of this new network and bring it to practice.” *Buckley Smith’s travel and accommodations to cover Cisco Live were paid for by Cisco. This article was not reviewed externally before publication. Careers, Infrastructure, Mobility, Software, Wireless & IoT Cisco, Cisco Live, networking Salesforce finally acquires Tableau for $15.7B Hashtag Trending - Mozilla paid browser; Samsung Galaxy Fold updated release date; Google Maps combats cab fare scam About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cisco commits $225 million to COVID-19 response Cisco leadership undergoes another shuffle involving Amy Chang and David Goeckeler In response to COVID-19, Cisco is handing out free 90-day Webex business licenses RSA Conference: Democratize security, says Cisco official, and McAfee urges work on quantum-resistant solutions Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada