https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/how-to-stop-conversation-hijacking-from-hijacking-your-firm/426129
How to stop 'conversation hijacking' from hijacking your firm | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by Metamorworks via GettyImages.ca Privacy & Security How to stop ‘conversation hijacking’ from hijacking your firm Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: January 16th, 2020 Man-in-the-middle attacks, as the name suggests, involve techniques where attackers in some way insert themselves in the middle of a transaction or communication for advantage. One of the most recent publicly-reported examples was the diversion last year by criminals of $1 million that was supposed to be sent from a Chinese venture capital firm to an Israeli startup. A blog posted today from Barracuda Networks included a stern reminder about what it calls “conversation hijacking” aided by creating fake domains for impersonating email addresses. It’s a threat that has to be faced by CISOs. While the volume of domain impersonation attacks is extremely low compared to phishing attacks, the report notes that it has been increasing in recent months. Looking at customer data of 500,000 monthly email attacks, Barracuda saw more than 2,000 domain impersonation attacks in November. By comparison, there were only 500 in July. Domain impersonation involves setting up lookalike web and email domains that fool the unsuspected. So, for example, an attacker trying to impersonate barracudanetworks.com creates barracudanetworks.org or barracudanetwork.com — techniques called typo-squatting. Related: Providers, domain registrars not doing enough to prevent DNS compromise: Vendor Scams often start with researching and taking over email accounts of senior staff. However, the report notes, cybercriminals rarely use the compromised accounts for conversation hijacking. Instead, they turn to email-domain impersonation. “They leverage information from the compromised accounts, including internal and external conversations between employees, partners, and customers, to craft convincing messages, send them from impersonated domains, and trick victims into wiring money or updating payment information.” The victimizing of the Chinese venture capital company is a perfect example. The criminals created fake domains of both the venture capital company and the startup to intercept and send fake messages to both sides. Barracuda says infosec leaders can use a number of tactics to protect their organizations against this kind of attack, including security awareness training, using multi-factor authentication for account authorization, deploying technology that recognizes when accounts have been compromised, monitoring new similar domain registrations, watching for logins from unusual locations and IP addresses, and watching for unusual inbox rules like forwarding mail. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security domain names, postmedia, security strategies Deloitte’s 2020 TMT Predictions: 5G's impact on healthcare will be significant Microsoft commits to carbon negative by 2030, among other environmental commitments About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada