https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/go-on-an-information-management-world-tour/408457
Go on an information management world tour | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Wireless & IoT Go on an information management world tour Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: August 30th, 2018 Quick question: Who holds the most data about you? Applefacebookgoogle has a great deal of it, but chances are it doesn’t have the goods about every single area of your life, from employment and income and taxes to what prescription drugs you take and what charitable donations you’ve made in the past five years. For data to that depth, you’d have to look to the Government. The Government hasn’t traditionally been seen as a thought leader when it comes to data security. However, this has been changing of late. The Government of Canada sees that it has a huge role to play in pushing digital literacy, establishing best practices around data management, and generally leading by example by dedicating itself to the prevention of cybercrime. In one project, the Smart Cities Challenge, the Government of Canada challenged communities across the nation to come up with ideas to improve the lives of Canadians using data and connected technology. In a ransomware and WikiLeaks world, such commitment on the part of the Government to lead the effort to make data more secure is coming at the right time. Public-sector organizations are no different from private-sector organizations in that they couldn’t function without information — informed decisions could not be made; legislation could not be passed, let alone enforced; and citizens would not be served. In order to derive the most value from its information, a public-sector company must actively manage its data from the moment it collects it to the point where it is no longer essential to operations. In a world where the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), PIPEDA, and third-party authentication are part of the conversation — but not necessarily understood — the industry is creating new options around the management of information according to regulations. On Tuesday, October 2nd, join Ian Owen, Public Sector Industry Specialist, Open Text, for a webinar world tour of jurisdictions that are taking the lead when it comes to information management in the public sector. During this fascinating session you’ll hear what Madrid, Barcelona, Singapore, the Western Cape Government in Africa, Los Angeles, New Zealand Transport, the U.S. Department of the Interior, and the Region of Peel (Greater Toronto Area) are doing to provide services to their staff and to citizens. Register now for Information Management: From Engagement to Insight – How governments are digitizing services from the outside in Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Wireless & IoT GDPR, information management, Open Text, PIPEDA BlackBerry Key2 gets a new look at IFA with 'LE' model Intel announces new 8th-Gen Core processors at IFA About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Gartner says nearly half of privacy compliance technology to rely on AI by 2023 Sponsored By: SysGen The Top Three Things to Look for in Fully Managed IT Services: Compliance, Continuity and Communication Privacy officers relieved Canadian watchdog isn’t changing the rules Canadians must avoid desensitization to data breaches and lobby for stronger penalties, cybersecurity experts say Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada