https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-microsoft-drops-bitcoin-support-apple-pressured-to-address-childhood-iphone-addiction/400482
Hashtag Trending – Microsoft drops Bitcoin support, Apple pressured to address childhood iPhone addiction | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Leadership Wireless & IoT Hashtag Trending – Microsoft drops Bitcoin support, Apple pressured to address childhood iPhone addiction Eric Emin Wood @ericewood Published: January 9th, 2018 Microsoft is no longer supporting Bitcoin. Two investors with $2 billion USD in Apple stock are pressuring the company to address childhood iPhone addiction. And today’s CES highlights include voice assistant-enabled earphones and “Li-Fi”. From Google Trends: Microsoft employees have told technical support website Bleeping Computer that the company is no longer supporting Bitcoin transactions, citing concerns with the cryptocurrency’s unpredictable nature. Prior to this decision, users weren’t able to pay Microsoft for its products using Bitcoin directly, but they could add a predetermined amount of dollars to their account balance and pay for it using Bitcoin. According to Bleeping Computer, Microsoft had supported the cryptocurrency since 2014, and if it stabilizes, may do so again. Next, from Facebook: A pair of Apple investors are pressuring the tech giant to address their concerns that iPhone use in children creates, “unintentional negative side-effects” such as rising levels of distraction among students, and higher rates of depression linked to smartphone use. The investors, Jana Partners and the California State Teachers’ Retirement System, and are already collaborating with academics to research the issue. They collectively own $2 billion USD in Apple stock, which represents less than one per cent of the company’s $890 billion USD market value. Finally, Google Trends offers a look at several products being showcased at this year’s CES: Jabra and Harman are both releasing smart assistant-enabled earphones, with Jabra’s Elite earphones featuring Amazon’s Alexa, and Harman’s JBL Everest line featuring the Google Assistant. Elsewhere, Taiwan-based Asus is launching a line of Windows mixed-reality headsets; and French company Oledcomm, which has a presence in Quebec, is showing off its new Li-Fi-enabled lamp. The $1040 lamp, which is currently available on IndieGoGo, uses LED bulbs to transmit Wi-Fi across the optical spectrum. That’s what’s trending today. Hashtag Trending is produced by IT World Canada. Today’s episode is brought to you by SAS, the world leader in advanced analytics and Official Analytics Partner of the Canadian Olympic Team. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Leadership, Wireless & IoT Alexa, Apple, bitcoin, ces, CES 2018, Google Assistant, hashtag trending, iPhone, Microsoft, podcasts, smart assistant, Wi-Fi Intel CEO addresses Meltdown and Spectre directly at CES Patching for Meltdown/Spectre: Make sure your AV supplier has the key About Eric Emin Wood Former IT World Canada associate editor turned consultant with public relations firm Porter Novelli. When not writing for the tech industry enjoys photography, movies, travelling, the Oxford comma, and will talk your ear off about animation if you give him an opening. Follow Follow @ericewood on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada