https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/carole-cadwalladr-the-investigative-journalist-who-blew-off-the-cambridge-analytica-data-scandal-to-deliver-keynote-at-true-north-festival/427566
Carole Cadwalladr, the investigative journalist who blew off the Cambridge Analytica data scandal, to deliver keynote at True North Festival  | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Carole Cadwalladr. Photo from TED Talk. Leadership Opinion Journalist who uncovered Cambridge Analytica data scandal to deliver keynote at True North Festival Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: February 21st, 2020 Communitech this week announced that the Pulitzer-nominated journalist Carole Cadwalladr who exposed the 2018 Cambridge Analytica data scandal will be a keynote speaker at the True North Festival 2020 this summer. In 2018, she worked alongside The New York Times to break a story that the political consulting company Cambridge Analytica had illicitly gathered data from millions of Facebook accounts to influence political campaigns, including the successful U.S. presidential bid for Donald Trump in 2016. Mark Zuckerberg, chief executive officer of Facebook, was called to testify by the U.S. Congress once the scandal was exposed. This ultimately led the U.S. Federal Trade Commission to fine Facebook $5 billion, the largest penalty ever levied against a tech company. At Centre in the Square, during Communitech’s Centre Stage programming on June 3, Cadwalladr will explain how she became the least favourite person for Cambridge Analytica. “As we continue conversations around tech for good, it is critical for all of us to examine the implications of the technology that our community is working so hard to develop,” said Saj Jamal, vice-president of marketing and events at Communitech, in a press release. “Carole Cadwalladr has dedicated much of her career to ensuring that big tech is held accountable in the public sphere and we are thrilled to have her share her story at True North. She may not have friends on Facebook, but she has many admirers in Canada.” In its third year, the festival is scheduled to be held in Kitchener from June 1-7. At this week-long event series, tech founders, policymakers, movers, shakers and creative thinkers come together to explore what it means to be human, and humane, in a tech-driven world. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership, Opinion Communitech, Facebook, U.S. government, Waterloo Cyber Security Today - 2FA mandatory at Amazon Ring, why upgrading Windows is important, and big drama at MGM hotels Expert says CRTC's data plan proposals for telcos are 'misguided' About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Shopify joins Facebook’s Libra Association Facebook cancels conference, IBM pulls out of RSA over coronavirus worries U.S. indicts four Chinese military members for 2017 Equifax breach Canadian privacy czar takes Facebook to court over Cambridge Analytica scandal Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada