https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/an-open-letter-to-our-audience-covid-19-a-balanced-approach-to-carrying-on/428704
An open letter to our audience - COVID–19: A balanced approach to carrying on | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Leadership Opinion An open letter to our audience – COVID–19: A balanced approach to carrying on Staff @itworldca Published: March 20th, 2020 It is not business as usual. The last 12-weeks have demonstrated how fragile and truly interconnected the world has become economically and socially. The last 12 days have shown how Canada’s gentle “pardon me” nature and welcoming spirit has not afforded us special protection from the impact of an unforgiving pandemic. Canadians are suffering. To date, we have been spared the scenes of overwhelmed healthcare facilities and caskets laid-end-to end in Italy, but the pain is real as businesses shut down, the stock market crashes and workers are laid off or asked to work at home. Why in the midst of the chaos is ITWC calling you to attend a webinar or to download a white paper? It’s a question that’s been raised more than once over the past week by valued members of our audience. Have we been tone-deaf in our response to the crisis? For those reeling from a layoff notice or hunkered down in self-isolation, perhaps. But for tech workers and companies struggling with the new reality of cancelled conferences and a home-based workforce, a webinar on endpoint security threats or a white paper on coping with the challenges of managing a remote workforce are completely on point. ITWC, through its four media properties, ITWorldCanada.com, ITBusiness.ca, ChannelDailyNews.com and DirectionInformatique.com, remains committed to delivering the tech news that helps you protect your business and career – including stories about the impact of COVID-19. As we continue to tell Canadian stories, we help our community as well as providing our staff with jobs and salaries. It is our passion and purpose to bring you the insights that help drive your business. By continuing operations, we fulfill this mandate and work. Through the other divisions, we will continue to offer relevant webinars and virtual roundtables that provide expert commentary on the issues that are impacting tech today and will prepare you when the new normal is evident weeks or months from now. On April 30 we will be moving forward with our annual Top 100 Solution Providers celebration – albeit virtually for the first time. Even if the worst of the turmoil has not passed, we believe people will be ready to pause, join with others virtually for 90 minutes and celebrate the accomplishments of their colleagues. Stay safe. Fawn Annan President, co-owner | ITWC Jim Love CIO, co-owner | ITWC Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership, Opinion COVID-19 Hashtag Trending - Amazon confirms its first COVID-19 case; A stern warning from Twitter; Trudeau unveils $82B aid package Cyber Security Today - Canada's Trudeau dragged into COVID-19 scam, how not to be victimized by SIM card swaps, NutriBullet hit and more Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Insulating your business from COVID-19 impacts TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Telus says it’s providing free high-speed internet to low-income families for 60 days in response to COVID-29 Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada