https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/broadcom-to-buy-ca-technologies-for-19-billion-usd/407053
Broadcom to buy CA Technologies for $19 billion USD | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Leadership Broadcom to buy CA Technologies for $19 billion USD Eric Emin Wood @ericewood Published: July 12th, 2018 Semiconductor manufacturer Broadcom Inc. is buying New York City-based software firm CA Technologies for $18.9 billion (all figures USD), in a bid to create what the former calls “one of the world’s leading infrastructure technology companies.” The news was announced Wednesday after first being reported in the Wall Street Journal. The acquisition has been approved by the boards of directors of both companies and will see CA’s shareholders receiving $44.50 per share in cash – a 20 per cent premium on CA’s share price on July 11 prior to the announcement. In a statement, Broadcom president and CEO Hock Tan called the acquisition “an important building block as we create one of the world’s leading infrastructure technology companies.” “With its sizeable installed base of customers, CA is uniquely positioned across the growing and fragmented infrastructure software market, and its mainframe and enterprise software franchises will add to our portfolio of mission critical technology businesses,” Tan said. “We intend to continue to strengthen these franchises to meet the growing demand for infrastructure software solutions.” CA CEO Mike Gregoire, meanwhile, said the company was “excited” to merge with Broadcom, and that combining the two companies would align “[CA’s] expertise in software with Broadcom’s leadership in the semiconductor industry.” “The benefits of this agreement extend to our shareholders, who will receive a significant and immediate premium for their shares, as well as our employees who will join an organization that shares our values of innovation, collaboration and engineering excellence,” Gregoire said in the July 11 statement. “We look forward to completing the transaction and ensuring a smooth transition.” As noted by the Journal, Bloomberg, TechCrunch, and the Register, the deal actually makes little sense, with the Journal euphemistically saying it “would take the chip-making giant in a new direction,” TechCrunch calling it a “bit of a surprise,” and the Register straight-up calling it the “Weirdest. Acquisition. Ever.” In an editorial for Bloomberg, reporters Shira Ovide and Brooke Sutherland called the deal “a huge blow to Broadcom’s reputation as a serial and savvy corporate acquirer” – and this after its reputation was already famously battered by the U.S. government halting Broadcom’s attempted takeover of rival Qualcomm in March. “How Broadcom can help CA’s transformation is not at all obvious,” they write. “What CA gives Broadcom is likewise not at all obvious. There are no logical opportunities for synergies: The companies don’t share supply chains or customers. The only real benefit for Broadcom is that the deal is so far out of its wheelhouse that regulators aren’t likely to give it any trouble.” Broadcom’s shareholders seem equally confused, they note: After the acquisition was reported Wednesday evening, the company’s stock price fell from $244.50 to $230 per share. In its release, Broadcom said the transaction is expected to boost its Broadcom’s long-term earnings by more than 55 per cent, and emphasized the benefit of CA’s “predictable and recurring revenues,” with the average customer adopting its infrastructure for more than three years. IT World Canada has asked CA’s Canadian arm to comment on the acquisition and will update this article if we hear back, while Broadcom only provided journalists with a phone number that reached a voicemail box which was full. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Leadership acquisitions, bloomberg, Broadcom, CA Technologies, Executive Operations, mergers/acquisitions, Wall Street Journal Apple updates MacBook Pro to include Siri for first time City of Brampton wins 2018 Esri Special Achievement in GIS Award About Eric Emin Wood Former IT World Canada associate editor turned consultant with public relations firm Porter Novelli. When not writing for the tech industry enjoys photography, movies, travelling, the Oxford comma, and will talk your ear off about animation if you give him an opening. Follow Follow @ericewood on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Insight Partners to acquire data protection company Veeam President to President with Kevin Connolly, SVP of Dell Technologies North America medium business Corel acquires Mac virtualization software Parallels OpenText acquires Liaison Technologies for $310 million Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada