https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/lessons-from-the-transformation-project-that-netted-a-1600-per-cent-roi-for-umbra/416954
Lessons from the transformation project that netted a 1600 % ROI | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Managed Services & Outsourcing Lessons from the transformation project that netted a 1600 % ROI Cindy Baker @itworldca Published: April 11th, 2019 It’s no wonder the members of the IT team at Umbra are called “rock stars” by their business colleagues. Like many companies, the home accessories designer was facing a disruption in the retail industry, Tariq Jamal, Umbra’s VP of Technology and Business Processes, said at a recent ITWC webinar. Consumers wanted faster online delivery from Umbra’s retail partners around the world. To achieve that, Umbra had to start shipping some products directly. That required it to provide frequent inventory updates via electronic data interchange (EDI) to the retailers. But its legacy systems were not up to the task. Watch on demand: Measurable ROI from Agile: Umbra Case Study A new cloud-based systems integration platform solved that problem. Not only that, it eliminated backlogs, resulted in major costs savings, improved the customer experience – and made it possible to introduce new technologies much faster, said Jamal. “We wanted to change the industry before it changes us.” An opportunity to transform After reviewing 13 possible solutions, Umbra decided to part with its managed service provider and implement an in-house Dell Boomi solution. It’s a platform-as-a-service that makes it easier for organizations to integrate all of their application and data sources. “It does a good job on app-to-app integration,” said Jamal. Although the primary goal was to fix Umbra’s legacy issues with EDI, Jamal saw it as an opportunity to improve integration across the company to generate additional return on investment (ROI). For example, the company used it to get orders into SAP from its e-commerce site. Overall, the project took less than one year to implement, six weeks ahead of schedule, and generated an overall ROI for the company of 1600 per cent, said Jamal The keys to success One of the critical factors in Umbra’s success was that it did its homework, Jamal said. For instance, the team had to map all of the processes with its retailers. “With EDI, there is no one size fits all,” he said. We made 400 maps and looked at where the massive pain points are and where we have manual workarounds.” The homework is also necessary before seeking project funds from the executive team. Jamal said he didn’t present to the executive team until he could clearly outline a solution and its benefits. Make sure you engage the business and IT teams, advises Jamal. It’s important to understand how the business will realize value from the tool, he said. From an IT perspective, the people who will be using the tool need to be part of the decision-making process. “I don’t know all of their problems,” he said. Training was also vital to the team’s success, and one of the reasons for choosing Dell Boomi, said Jamal. “We had five days of training and then had someone teach them how to onboard an EDI partner,” said Jamal. The best way to learn is by doing. Another lesson is to start small and get early wins. “You need to mitigate risk,” said Brad Evans, Technical Educator with Dell Canada. “We don’t want to dump a box and say see ya later. Implementation in your environment is important to us. You start small, learn and accelerate.” Finally, Jamal suggests that organizations should give people a chance to transform as the business changes. Two of his team members that used to work with the managed service provider are now thriving as the experts on the new integration platform. “Everyone knows that there is zero glamour in EDI,” Jamal said. But with the massive return on investment, “there is a lot of glamour now.” Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Managed Services & Outsourcing Boomi, Dell EMC, digital transformation, EDI, systems integration, Umbra Everything you need to know about 5G Hashtag Trending - Alexa spies; iPhones get greener; first Canadian 5G auction ends About Cindy Baker Cindy Baker has over 20 years of experience in IT-related fields in the public and private sectors, as a lawyer and strategic advisor. She is a former broadcast journalist, currently working as a consultant, freelance writer and editor. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content CIOs worry about people, capacity and security as COVID-19 crisis grows Avoiding CIO failure in oil and gas Sponsored By: Avaya Evolve at the speed you choose with Avaya subscription Slow and steady offers a brighter tomorrow for SMBs Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada