https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/federal-government-announces-12m-in-funding-for-second-phase-of-cancode-program/420490
Federal government announces $12M in funding for second phase of CanCode program | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Public Sector Federal government announces $12M in funding for second phase of CanCode program Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: July 31st, 2019 The Government of Canada’s CanCode program is providing $12 million in funding to Actua, a charitable organization that provides educational programs in science, engineering, and technology to young people in Canada. This funding is part of the $60 million in funding that was promised to CanCode in the 2019 budget; bringing the funding promise to a total of $110 million when factoring in the 2018 budget. Announced last week by Marco Mendicino, the Member of Parliament for Eglinton–Lawrence and Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Infrastructure and Communities, this funding will allow Actua to provide 900,500 coding and digital skills training opportunities to students, from kindergarten to Grade 12, as well as provide 16,350 teachers across the country learning opportunities to hone their skills for teaching coding in the classroom. “Technology has transformed our everyday lives in many ways, including the skills we need to excel in the working world. Learning digital skills and coding, and how technology can help drive innovation, will help open so many doors to our next generation,” said Mendicino. “Giving the opportunity for all children to become tech-savvy and learn coding is important to ensuring they are set up for success, and it will also help strengthen our economy for many years to come.” According to the press release, the first phase of CanCode provided 1.9 million experiences in coding and digital skills training to Canadian students and teachers. CanCode is a key part of Canada’s Digital Charter; aligning with the charter’s first principle that ensures Canadians have equal opportunity to take part in the digital world by providing them the skills and tools required to operate in a digital economy. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Public Sector CanCode Cyber Security Today - How to discover if your email has been hacked We have to do a better job of monetizing data, Dell EMC execs say About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Canadian government announces recipients of $50 million CanCode initiative Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada