https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/metaoptimas-intelligent-dermatology-solution-wins-ingenious-award/424223
AI and analytics dig deep into dermatology | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by kali9 | Getty Images Artificial Intelligence Digital Transformation Emerging Tech Software AI and analytics dig deep into dermatology Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: November 28th, 2019 2019 Ingenious Small Private Sector Award | MetaOptima’s DermEngine One in seven Canadians are diagnosed with a form of skin cancer in their lifetime, and according to the Government of Canada, the early detection of this disease is essential to positive outcomes, increasing survival rates by as much as 82 per cent. Unfortunately, many patients are forced to wait for two months or longer for their dermatologist appointment. In order to better serve them, medical professionals need to be equipped with the most advanced tools in dermatology for affordable, accessible, and efficient services, as well as hardware and software solutions to improve the quality and efficiency of dermatology image management. Read more about our Ingenious award winners here The 2019 Ingenious Spark award winner, DermEngine, aims to accomplish just that. The DermEngine solution was launched in 2016 with the help of co-founder Dr. Majid Razmara, who’s also the chief technical officer of MetaOptima. DermEngine is powered by artificial intelligence that features analytical capabilities supported by a unique set of algorithms. Razmara saw great potential for AI to improve dermatology image management technology, said Maryam Sadeghi, chief executive officer and co-founder of MetaOptima Technology. “DermEngine has many algorithms designed and implemented based on the needs identified by our team of experts as well as our users and doctors who provide us continuous feedback. The current ones available in the platform are designed for workflow efficiency and educational and decision support purposes, and they are working based on imaging and non-imaging data to support our doctors in their everyday busy workflow,” said Sadeghi in an interview. The implementation of Al algorithms to circumvent traditional bottleneck procedures in dermatology represents a significant breakthrough in the field, indicated Sadeghi. They also address other problems such as long appointment wait times, high false-positive biopsy rates, and the late detection of skin cancer and other serious conditions. MetaOptima has launched several features on the platform since it first went live. DermEngine is also available on the Apple TV App. Source: YouTube. “DermEngine is a platform that offers new features as we learn about the needs of our doctors and patients and the new innovations will be available gradually over time. We are planning for the diagnostic features to be available in 2021 after finalizing the clinical studies and receiving the approvals,” said Sadeghi. Rather than simply taking, storing, and sharing dermatology grade images, DermEngine is capable of tracking the smallest changes of a lesion over time, identifying irregular colouration, and assisting doctors with assessing risk by comparing an image to millions of other visually similar images. Hence, MetaOptima set out to develop an intelligent dermatology software designed to allow medical professionals to expedite urgent cases while using the latest tools in artificial intelligence to support clinical decisions. Key metrics for success include streamlining imaging workflows by 80 per cent and maintaining or improving the platform’s image identification accuracy rate to 88 per cent. DermEngine’s development was the response to a long-awaited need in the field for optimal teledermatology services that could satisfy the increasing demand for dermatology care. Hence, one of the key objectives of this solution is to increase the accuracy of diagnostics in order to decrease waiting times for patients to access life-saving treatment. MetaOptima currently serves more than 500,000 patients around the world in major skin cancer centres of excellence through supporting medical professionals at every step of the care cycle with smart, proven tools. “MetaOptima works with universities and academic centers very closely to advance our technology more and more and create a learning and growth environment for our young talents and students. We also have major partnerships such as our SuperCluster designed to bring different expertise from the industry partners and major healthcare providers and organizations such as the Providence Healthcare to implement a solution that can improve the quality of care and outcomes for our patients while supporting our doctors and helping our healthcare system to save costs,” Sadeghi explained. In less than four years, MetaOptima has expanded to all corners of the globe to better support its users. With offices in Canada, Australia, and the U.S. and over 70 employees, the company recently received an international investment of over $10 million for the ongoing development of its intelligent dermatology solutions. Artificial Intelligence, Digital Transformation, Emerging Tech, Software digital health, electronic health records, hospitals, Ingenious Awards 2019 CanadianCIO finalists say discipline and data literacy are critical skills for today’s CIOs 2019 CIO of the Year – Private Sector – Mark Bryant About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content ITAC launches new corporate brand, Technation Humber River Hospital’s iPlan solution helps reduce ALC days by 4,460 days Virtual Visits exceeds in-person care experience 30% of the time Mastering IoT in the construction field pays off for PCL Construction Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada