https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ised-details-3500mhz-spectrum-auction-criterias/428162
ISED details 3,500MHz spectrum auction rules | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Mobility Wireless & IoT ISED details 3,500MHz 5G spectrum auction criterias Tom Li @itworldca Published: March 5th, 2020 The Innovation, Science, and Economic Development (ISED) of Canada has detailed the guidelines surrounding the upcoming 3,500MHz wireless spectrum frequency auction to used by future 5G networks. Applications and deposits for spectrum licences will be due in October, with the full auction commencing in December, ISED confirmed during a conference call with reporters on March 5. In total, there will be 1,506 licences up for bidding. ISED set the opening bid prices for 3,500MHz at CA$558 million, although the final amount would be determined by the auction bids and could be much higher, and the revenues would be paid to the Canadian Consolidated revenue fund. The 600MHz auction held last year raised CA$3.47 billion. Auction rules are a bit different this time. The 200MHz licences will be sold in 10MHz blocks across 172 areas defined as tier 4 service areas. In the 600MHz 5G spectrum held last year, there were only 16 areas. An ISED spokesperson said during the conference call that this is due to the nature of the 3,500Mhz band as its higher frequency limits its range. The 600MHz spectrum was able to provide service over long distances. Since the 3,500MHz frequencies offer data over shorter ranges, it required a different geographical division. “It makes it a bit more granular and a bit easier for a greater variety of people to participate in the auction,” the spokesperson said. Not all frequency blocks will be available in all 172 areas. Furthermore, ISED will provision 50MHz for smaller carriers in 138 regions. In regions that don’t have the full 50MHz for provisioning, all spectrums will be open to bidding. ISED said that four of these areas are large municipalities where competition should be maximized. The rest of the 30 are more rural areas that already have current licences holders. In these areas, ISED decided against provisioning because it wanted to drive more business cases to those areas. Once the auction concludes, ISED will mandate the winners to deliver services on these licences on a five, seven, 10, and 20-year targets. The higher the population density, the faster the services must deploy. Currently, the 3,500MHz band is being used to deliver fixed wireless internet services. Most of these licences were granted to rural and remote communities on a 10-year term between 2004 and 2009. As part of its 2014 decision to reallocate the 3,500MHz band, ISED will allow existing licensees to renew their licence on a 1-year basis for flexible use, meaning that the bands can continue to deliver fixed internet or new mobile services. Existing licensees will also be able to continue to deliver services on their spectrums until the winner rolls out their services. In June 2019, Minister of Innovation, Science, and Industry (ISI) Navdeep Bains decided to let rural wireless internet service providers keep the majority of the spectrum that they hold within the 3,500MHz band. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Mobility, Wireless & IoT 5G, 5G spectrum auction, Canadian telecom, CRTC, ISED A new Google Cloud Platform region to come to Toronto Cyber Security Today - More corporate ransomware victims, T-Mobile, J. Crew hacked, coronavirus advice and a fraud awareness quiz About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Canada has highest wireless value among G7 nations: U.S. study Rajeev Suri to step down as president and CEO of Nokia Ericsson announces partnership with Carleton University to research 5G tech Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada