https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/coming-soon-to-your-television-alexa-and-google-assistant/415030
Coming soon to your television: Alexa and Google Assistant | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Mobility Coming soon to your television: Alexa and Google Assistant Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: February 12th, 2019 When George Orwell wrote Nineteen Eighty-Four, he imagined Telescreens – devices that operated not only to play video, but also for surveillance complete with cameras and microphones. Now in 2019, Smart TVs are projected to be the fastest growing category of voice assistant technology by Hampshire, U.K.-based Juniper Research. Smart TVs will expand at a pace of more than 100 per cent compound annual growth rate for the next five years, Juniper predicts. Combine that with the growth of smart speakers at more than 40 per cent, as well as wearables at slightly more than 40 per cent, and 8 billion digital voice assistants will be in the market by 2023, up from an estimated 2.5 billion at the end of 2018. Whereas the fictional Telescreens’ main purpose was surveillance by a totalitarian government, Smart TVs are motivated by more capitalistic factors. Amazon’s Alexa is the leader in this space as the most common voice assistant featured on connected devices. That helps Amazon’s strategy of using voice as a purchasing channel, allowing its customers to order products without even looking at a screen. However, Juniper predicts that as voice commerce grows to about $80 billion per annum by 2023, it will be digital goods and money transfer services driving that revenue, not physical goods. Another market impact of the proliferation of smart assistants is a negative effect on the makers of apps specifically for smartphones and tablets. Juniper expects revenue from these apps to fall in key markets starting in 2022, as consumers tend towards experiences compatible with their voice assistants. How do people use voice assistants today? If Juniper’s predictions are to be realized, a change in consumer behaviour is necessary. When it comes to how people are using voice assistants today, shopping is pretty far down the list, according to a survey of 503 voice assistant users by business information firm Clutch. Two-thirds of users say they play music or podcasts with their voice assistants, while 56 per cent set alarms or reminders; 48 per cent access updates on news, weather, or sports; 31 per cent control smart home appliances; 29 per cent to communicate, and 18 per cent to shop or compare prices. Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility Alexa, Google Assistant, Juniper Research, voice assistant Prepare for the next level of cyber-attacks Is the gig economy right for your business? About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Facebook admits to another data leak, Netflilx’s war on password sharing, Google voice-assistant training Hashtag Trending – New privacy tools from Google, Alexa goes job hunting, UPS delivery drones approved AI voice assistants untrusted by consumers: Clutch report Why letting Alexa spy on everything you say could be good for your health Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada