https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/microsoft-closes-all-retail-locations-due-to-covid-19-concerns/428558
Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: March 17th, 2020 Microsoft has temporarily closed its retail locations globally due to concerns over the spread of COVID-19. David Porter, vice-president of Microsoft stores, made the announcement via a blog post this morning on LinkedIn. “With today’s recommendation from the United States government to not gather in groups of more than 10 people, we will be temporarily closing Microsoft Store locations – effective immediately,” wrote Porter. “We are closing all Microsoft Store locations to help protect the health and safety of our customers and our employees. During this unprecedented time, the best way we can serve you is to do everything we can to help minimize the risk of the virus spreading. We will re-open as soon it is safe to do so. Related: A running list of cancelled or postponed tech events due to COVID-19 This follows a continuing trend of retail locations and other public areas being closed, as many governments have recommended restricting exposure to the public as much as possible, and to only go outside for absolutely necessary reasons. In fact, Microsoft is not the first tech giant to close its retail locations, as Apple had already announced it will be closing all of its stores outside of China until March 27. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech Apple, coronavirus, COVID-19, Microsoft, postmedia COVID-19: BlackBerry, Citrix among firms seeing leap in remote access solution sales Bell, Rogers, Telus and others temporarily remove internet data caps About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Insulating your business from COVID-19 impacts TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada