https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/teksavvy-partners-with-ericsson-to-upgrade-broadband-for-over-30000-households-in-southwestern-ontario/427549
TekSavvy partners with Ericsson to upgrade broadband for over 30,000 households in southwestern Ontario | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image courtesy of Shutterstock.com Cloud Digital Transformation Infrastructure Software Wireless & IoT TekSavvy partners with Ericsson to upgrade broadband for over 30,000 households in southwestern Ontario Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: February 20th, 2020 TekSavvy Solutions announced today that it has chosen Ericsson to upgrade TekSavvy’s existing fixed wireless access (FWA) services and network in rural southwestern Ontario. The modernization of the existing FWA infrastructure is expected to be completed in the first half of 2020. Ericsson will be leveraging its radio system, cloud core technology and transport technology to build rural LTE networks in the region. Its radio system will be used for upgrading TekSavvy’s existing FWA network using Ericsson 8×8 MIMO solutions, expanding Teksavvy’s coverage in the process. Ericsson Radio System (photo by Ericsson) “TekSavvy is an example of how an independent internet service provider can leverage best-in-class solutions from Ericsson in the delivery of robust rural broadband services at a level equal to the national players,” Charlie Burns, chief technology officer for Teksavvy, said in a press release. This partnership will provide communities within the Lambton, Middlesex and Elgin countries, as well as within the Municipality of Chatham-Kent with upgraded and expanded broadband solutions through Ericsson’s services and products. According to Teksavvy, its wireless investments are set to improve rural broadband for over 30,000 households in Southwestern Ontario. As an internet reseller, TekSavvy relies mostly on infrastructures established by the larger facility based telcos to deliver service. The partnership with Erricson is the first between the two. Cloud, Digital Transformation, Infrastructure, Software, Wireless & IoT broadband, Ericsson, Ericsson Canada, Internet, LTE, Ontario, TekSavvy How a nine-year-old's question sparked a Canadian cybersecurity conference for women Hashtag Trending - Facebook faces lawsuit, Find My Mobile, a legend passes away About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Telus says it’s providing free high-speed internet to low-income families for 60 days in response to COVID-29 Ericsson announces partnership with Carleton University to research 5G tech Mitacs placing 400 interns with ENCQOR 5G network projects Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada