https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/isreali-startup-launches-hailo-8-ai-chip-targets-world-wide-deployment/417738
Isreali startup launches Hailo-8 AI chip, targets world-wide deployment | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Isreali startup launches Hailo-8 AI chip, targets world-wide deployment Tom Li @itworldca Published: May 14th, 2019 The Isreali startup Halio has released Hailo-8, its first AI chip made for computing at the edge, after two years of development. In its press release, Hailo says that its new holistic chip has been designed to “rely on the core properties of neural networks”, which allows it to run deep learning applications at full scale more efficiently. In its in-house benchmark, Hailo claims that its chips scored higher in the neural network benchmark ResNet-50 while consuming far less power compared to Nvidia Xavier AGX. It was able to achieve 672 FPS image inferencing while consuming 1.67W of power, equating to 2.8 TOPS (tera operations per second) per watt. Currently, Hailo is looking to apply its Hailo-8 to all sectors of IoT with a focus on automotive. Aside from working with several major automotive manufacturers in their driver assistance systems, it’s also targeting the wearables, smart cities, drones, and smart homes market. “In recent years, we’ve witnessed an ever-growing list of applications unlocked by deep learning, which were made possible thanks to server-class GPUs,” said Orr Danon, CEO of Hailo in its press release. “However, as industries are increasingly powered and even upended by AI, there is a crucial need for an analogous architecture that replaces processors of the past, enabling deep learning to run devices at the edge. Hailo’s chip was designed from the ground up to do just that. We are excited to help customers drive their intelligent devices to new limits. A new age of chips means a new age of technology.” In June 2018, Hailo raised over $12 million in initial funding from a number of Israeli investor including Maniv Mobility and Next Gear, as well as funding from Hailo’s own chairman. In January 2019, Hailo reached over $20 million in funding after Chinese venture capital firm Glory Ventures joined its investor group roster. The investment from the Chinese firm paves way for Hailo to enter the market in China and Hong Kong. Currently, Hailo is active in Europe, Japan, Korea, and North America. Artificial Intelligence AI, AI Research, Hailo, machine learning Hashtag Trending - Smart Cities Challenge conclusion; Apple Watch update; OCE Discovery HP updates midrange EliteBook and ZBook with high-end features About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content The bad guys are arming themselves with AI, but so are we, says Darktrace’s country manager for Canada 10 women advancing AI in Canada Gartner says nearly half of privacy compliance technology to rely on AI by 2023 Inflection Point I An interview with AltaML’s managing director about AI’s role in shaping Calgary’s digital future Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada