https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/u-s-indicts-four-chinese-military-members-for-2017-equifax-breach/427164
U.S. indicts four Chinese military members for 2017 Equifax breach | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Software U.S. indicts four Chinese military members for 2017 Equifax breach Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: February 10th, 2020 The U.S. Department of Justice has accused Chinese military personnel of hacking into the computer systems of Equifax, a credit reporting agency, in 2017. The indictment alleges four members of China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) engaged in a three-month-long campaign to steal personal information of approximately 145 million Americans, and valuable trade secrets of the company, namely its data compilations and database designs. Wu Zhiyong, Liu Lei, Xu Ke, and Wang Qian were members of the PLA’s 54th Research Institute, which is a component of the military of China. The four accused allegedly conspired with each other to hack into the computer networks of Equifax, maintain unauthorized access to those systems, and steal personal information of around 145 million American victims, The U.S. Department of Justice noted in a press release today. The investigation was carried out jointly by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia, FBI’S Atlanta Field Office, and the Criminal and National Security Divisions of the Department of Justice. The FBI’s Cyber Division also provided support. “This was an organized and remarkably brazen criminal heist of sensitive information of nearly half of all Americans, as well as the hard work and intellectual property of an American company, by a unit of the Chinese military,” said U.S. Attorney General William P. Barr who made the announcement. The indictment states that the defendants took advantage of a vulnerability in the Apache Struts Web Framework software used by the online dispute portal of Equifax. This access was used by the defendants to reconnaissance the portal as well as to get hold of the login credentials that could be used for further navigation of Equifax’s network. “The defendants spent several weeks running queries to identify Equifax’s database structure and searching for sensitive, personally identifiable information within Equifax’s system. Once they accessed files of interest, the conspirators then stored the stolen information in temporary output files, compressed and divided the files, and ultimately were able to download and exfiltrate the data from Equifax’s network to computers outside the United States. In total, the attackers ran approximately 9,000 queries on Equifax’s system, obtaining names, birth dates and social security numbers for nearly half of all American citizens,” read the press release. The indictment also states that the defendants routed traffic through around 34 servers located in approximately 20 countries to obfuscate their true location, used encrypted communication channels within Equifax’s network to blend in with normal network activity, and wiped log files and deleted compressed files on a daily basis for eliminating records of their activity. The defendants were charged with three counts of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, conspiracy to commit computer fraud, and conspiracy to commit economic espionage. In addition, they have also been charged with two counts of unauthorized access and intentional damage to a protected computer, three counts of wire fraud, and one count of economic espionage. “Today, we hold PLA hackers accountable for their criminal actions, and we remind the Chinese government that we have the capability to remove the Internet’s cloak of anonymity and find the hackers that nation repeatedly deploys against us. Unfortunately, the Equifax hack fits a disturbing and unacceptable pattern of state-sponsored computer intrusions and thefts by China and its citizens that have targeted personally identifiable information, trade secrets, and other confidential information,” said Barr. These are just allegations, and the defendants are presumed innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Software breach, Equifax, IT security breach, security, security breaches, U.S. government Hybrid AWS Outposts ‘a great option’ for manufacturing, healthcare, says AWS director Hashtag Trending - Amazon is watching what you read, crypto scams make billions, Equifax breach update About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity Some Ontario beer chain outlets forced to use cash-only after cyber attack How to stonewall the hackers trying to to get around your MFA Clearview AI says its client list was stolen Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada