https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/preparing-for-the-second-wave-of-digital-era-change/423794
Preparing for the second wave of digital era change | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Preparing for the second wave of digital era change Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: November 7th, 2019 The healthcare industry has historically lagged behind when it comes to adopting new technology. Change is in the air, however, with the digital health market expected to surpass half a trillion dollars by 2026. Many healthcare organizations are looking to redefine and/or differentiate themselves in the digital era, in areas like: Artificial intelligence – from machines to diagnostic applications to the utilization of machine learning algorithms to safely explore chemical and biological interactions in the drug discovery process Telehealth – Seven million patients in 2018 from only 350,000 in 2013 (Source: Statista) The Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) – 20-30 billion IoMT devices deployed by 2020, with the market for IoT devices in healthcare anticipated to reach $136 billion by 2021 Augmented reality and virtual reality – enhanced and simulated environments enable more diverse interactions that might otherwise be possible during physical therapy Register for webinar “INFRAM and the building of a future-ready digital era infrastructure” This latest wave of digital era change promises to raise the healthcare bar even higher through such technologies as AI, wearables, analytics, and new advanced health apps. The benefits of this second wave are potentially enormous, both for patients and healthcare practitioners. However, the transition to a new world of streamlined operations, secure systems, and improved clinical experiences is not guaranteed. In fact, many organizations wonder whether their infrastructure is capable of carrying them into the future. Is yours one of these organizations? Are there questions around whether your infrastructure can handle what’s coming? Do you have access to an objective view of your infrastructure? Do you have a clear and objective view of your infrastructure? If not, you’d benefit enormously from registering for a webinar entitled “INFRAM and the building of a future-ready digital era infrastructure.” In this December 3rd session, ITWC CIO Jim Love and special guests David Jirku, Solutions Architect, Cisco, and Philip Bradley, Regional Director of the Americas, HIMSS Analytics, will be discussing the HIMSS Analytics Infrastructure Adoption Model (INFRAM) — what exactly it is, why it’s important, and what it can do to help close infrastructure gaps in future-facing organizations. Also covered in this one-hour session: A new digital era in healthcare – apps, devices, mobile clinicians, security threats, etc. INFRAM assessment, from survey and report to gap assessment and HIMSS validation Bonus case study – one organization’s experience engaging INFRAM Register now for “INFRAM and the building of a future-ready digital era infrastructure” Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation digital, DX, healthcare, HIMSS, INFRAM, Medical Canada's former CIO joins KPMG as a partner Hyundai Autron selects Blackberry QNX to power autonomous vehicle software About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Azure NetApp files become HIPAA compliant Maple launches free online screening and consultation solution in response to COVID-19 Explore all the changes in Canadian financial services security in a single day Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada