https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/failure-to-better-manage-keys-certificates-putting-firms-at-risk-report/427218
Failure to better manage keys and certificates putting firms at risk, says new report | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by Matejmo from GettyImages.ca Privacy & Security Failure to better manage keys and certificates putting firms at risk, says new report Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: February 12th, 2020 Encryption is a vital tool for a chief information security officer in the fight to protect the organization’s data, software and network connections. But if a survey of IT pros is accurate, failure to manage the cryptographic keys and digital certificates that encryption relies on is putting North American firms “at significant risk.” That’s the conclusion of a report released today following a survey of 603 IT and information security professionals in Canada and the U.S. done for Keyfactor, which offers public key infrastructure as a service. The survey by the Ponemon Institute found: 73 per cent of respondents said they have unplanned downtime and outages due to mismanaged digital certificates 55 per cent say their organizations had four or more certificate-related outages in the past two years alone 74 percent of respondents believe their organizations don’t know exactly how many keys and certificates (including self-signed) they have, much less where to find them or when they expire Here’s one way to measure the extent of the problem: The average organization that responded to the survey experienced 5.8 audit failures in the past two years due to insufficient key management. Certificate authority (CA) compromise or rogue CAs that enable attackers to conduct man-in-the-middle and phishing attacks were close behind, with server certificate and key misuse almost tied. And, the report argues, it’s not just an enterprise software problem. The emergence of new IoT devices and industry mandates call for more robust encryption and device identity. As a result, the number of keys and digital certificates in most organizations has reached tens or even hundreds of thousands. Sixty-four per cent of respondents agreed the management of cryptographic keys and digital certificates is reducing the general efficiency of their business processes. There’s no shortage of companies that have been embarrassed by the failure to manage certificates properly. The most recent is Microsoft, whose Teams collaboration platform was offline for two hours because of an expired SSL certificate. This was the second annual report done for Keyfactor on what it calls unmanaged digital identities. “Our 2019 report was a wake-up call in many ways – it was the first report of its kind to investigate the role that digital certificates and keys play in creating trust inside and outside organizations,” said Larry Ponemon, founder of the Ponemon Institute. “In many ways, I was optimistic that we’d see progress this year as more executives invested the resources needed to close the gap between ‘standard practice’ in PKI and ‘best practice’. This year’s report shows that while progress has been made in a few areas, that gap is actually growing wider.” The report reinforces cryptography’s importance within the security, said Keyfactor CSO Chris Hickman. “In many cases, PKI remains a manual function with ownership split across IT and security teams. Growing connectivity has created an exposure epidemic. Without a clear PKI in-house or outsourced program owner and process to close critical trust gaps, the risk of outages and breaches will continue to rise.” Click here to read the full report. Registration required. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security key management, security strategies Samsung launches Galaxy Z Flip foldable phone and Galaxy S20 series smartphones Mitacs placing 400 interns with ENCQOR 5G network projects About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada