https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/apple-partners-with-malala-fund/400967
Apple partners with Malala Fund | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Leadership Apple partners with Malala Fund Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: January 22nd, 2018 The Malala Fund is expecting to double the number of grants awarded by its partners after Apple Inc. announced it’s teaming up with the organization. Apple will help the Malala Fund, which supports girls’ education and advocacy for equal opportunity, with scaling and research into policy changes within the organization, according to a statement from the company on Monday. The Malala Fund looks to expand its secondary education opportunities to more than 100,000 girls and extend funding programs in India and Latin America. Apple CEO Tim Cook will also join the Malala Fund leadership council. He said Apple is looking forward to the opportunities ahead. Apple CEO Tim Cook visits students in Beirut. Source: Apple “Malala is a courageous advocate for equality. She’s one of the most inspiring figures of our time, and we are honoured to help her extend the important work she is doing to empower girls around the world,” Cook said. Apple has helped educate people for years, Malala Yousafzai said in a statement, adding the partnership is a good fit for the Malala Fund. “I am grateful that Apple knows the value of investing in girls and is joining Malala Fund in the fight to ensure all girls can learn and lead without fear,” she said. The fund’s Gulmakai Network currently supports programs in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Lebanon, Turkey and Nigeria. Careers, Leadership Apple, education, malala Canadian government announces recipients of $50 million CanCode initiative Intel urges halt to installing its Meltdown/Spectre patches About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Is my iPhone snooping on my conversations? Year Zero I A Reimagination of the Future with Sophia Fairweather, One of Canada’s Brightest Young Digital Luminaries Apple’s new MacBook Air and iPad Pro bring surprsing upgrades Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada