https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/are-you-ready-for-the-immersive-internet/4459
Are you ready for the immersive Internet? | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Are you ready for the immersive Internet? Dave Webb @itworldca Published: November 17th, 2008 Erica Driver recalls a visit to an island, complete with race track, where she and others whizzed about until they were dizzy. “I had to stop. I was seasick,” the co-founder and principal of independent analysis firm ThinkBalm. That was simple enough – it just took getting out her chair and taking off the headphones. The island was in virtual world Second Life. Online worlds like Second Life aren’t simply for gamers, according to Driver. For the enterprise, there’s an opportunity for cost savings and redesigning processes in what she calls the immersive Internet. It also engages users deeply in their work and allows them to do things that simply couldn’t be done in the real world. In ThinkBalm’s report, The Immersive Internet: Make Tactical Moves Today for Strategic Advantage Tomorrow, the research company defines the immersive Internet as “a collection of emerging technologies combined with a social culture that has its roots in gaming and virtual worlds.” “What’s not immersive is FaceBook or LinkedIn,” Driver says – those are simply social networking sites. Three-dimensional video, directional stereo sound and haptic devices for touch feedback aren’t necessary, though “they contribute an amount to the immersive experience,” Driver says. At a minimum, it’s an immersive experience when people can meet in an environment and interact, usually through avatars. “If you feel your presences has been projected into the environment,” it’s an immersive experience. “There’s levels and layers to that immersion,” she says. Driver describes enterprise uptake of the immersive Internet as being at the “seedling” stage. “In most cases, it’s experimentation and small pilots,” she says. Most of those applications revolve around meetings and conferences, or education and training. But she believes it will be mainstream in the next five years, though there are stumbling blocks, like a lack of best practices and interoperability between platforms. But why not just teleconference? Driver says on a virtual campus, for example, you can lead someone somewhere to demonstrate a business problem and brainstorm solutions. “You can actually shake hands,” she says. “You can’t do that in a teleconference, no matter how good the resolution. You reach out and touch a screen.” As a substitute for business travel, it saves money but retains the engagement and spontaneity of an in-person meeting. In an economy where cost-cutting messages resonate, “here’s a technology that doesn’t have to be expensive that can deliver those cost cuts and not have to hurt (the company).” Adoption of immersive technology isn’t restricted top any particular vertical or size of company. “It’s not the company. It’s the people,” Driver says – curious, looking for better ways to work, familiar with the technology from their own or their children’s use of it. “You can find those people anywhere,” she says, though many corporate cultures don’t encourage that type of innovation. A locked-down IT shop, where people can’t install their own applications or visit social networking sites is not a breeding ground for immersive innovation. “It’s a level of trust … it speaks to culture.” IBM Corp., for example, encourages its employees to explore virtual worlds – but with comprehensive guidelines. Use your judgment; protect your reputation (and IBM’s); make the right impression. You can read the full list of guidelines here. IBM began working on its own virtual worlds about three years ago. Today, it’s composed of about 50 public “island clusters” and 20 private ones, according to Chuck Hamilton, manager of new media and learning for IBM’s 3-D media group. They’re used primarily for culture and community building; there are also recruiting islands, business centres, and training and mentoring islands. About 10,000 IBMers are members of the IBM virtual world, but Hamilton says there’s no way of knowing how many are out in other virtual worlds, though the estimate runs from 10,000 to 15,000. “The guidelines are actually pretty old now,” Hamilton says, noting they were formulated about 18 months ago. “Nobody ever wrote one for the Web,” he said, the company figured it had better be discussed. The basic premise of the guidelines: Virtual worlds are public places, and whether you’re in a real or virtual world, the same business code of conduct applies, Hamilton says. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure Hamilton, layers Travel budget cuts help TeliaSonera set teleconferencing record IBM Cognos helps banks mitigate credit risk About Dave Webb Dave Webb is a freelance editor and writer. A veteran journalist of more than 20 years' experience (15 of them in technology), he has held senior editorial positions with a number of technology publications. He was honoured with an Andersen Consulting Award for Excellence in Business Journalism in 2000, and several Canadian Online Publishing Awards as part of the ComputerWorld Canada team. Join Dave Webb on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Investor relations tech firm opening new office in Hamilton, ‘we’re getting in early’ says CEO Amazon HQ2 sweepstakes: which Canadian cities submitted bids? Ottawa announces $1.2 billion Strategic Innovation Fund IBM Lotusphere 2010 showcases Canadian developers Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada