https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ransomware-now-stealing-data-warns-ontario-cybercop/423168
Ransomware now stealing data, warns Ontario cybercop | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Ransomware now stealing data, warns Ontario cybercop Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: October 23rd, 2019 ORILLIA, Ont. -Ransomware’s ability to encrypt entire volumes of data is a nightmare scenario for many infosec pros. Their only comfort may be the hope their backups are secure and data can be restored, with few side effects. However, Ontario’s top cybercrime cop warns recent variants also include the ability to exfiltrate data. “That’s scary,” Det. Sgt. Vern Crowley, head of the Ontario Provincial Police’s cybercrime investigations team, told infosec pros Tuesday at the annual security conference of the Ontario division of the Municipal Information Systems Association. MISA members work in the IT departments of villages, towns and cities. In the last four weeks, Crowley said his unit has responded to an outburst of cyber attacks, including ransomware. The most recent victim was the city of Woodstock, Ont. Not only is ransomware now stealing corporate data, Crowley said versions like Ryuk also come with the Emotet and Trickbot credentials-stealing malware. For those who don’t realize, Ryuk in effect works backwards: It first tries to encrypt backups on the network, then servers, and finally endpoints. It also covers its tracks, wiping out shadow volumes and security event logs. This makes it more important than ever, Crowley said, to keep logs as long as possible for forensic purposes. Roughtly 80 per cent of ransomware is delivered through email phishing attacks, he said. However, recently his team has also seen criminals access networks through brute force attacks on open remote desktop protocol ports. RDP it shouldn’t be open to the internet, Crowley warned. He insisted two-factor authentication to protect logins is “an absolute must … It will go a long way to protecting your systems.” Having off-line backups that can’t be infected is another vital defence, he added. Crowley also urged organizations to report all cyber incidents to local police – after all, it’s a crime — and not simply by saying ‘We’ve been hit by a virus.’ For investigative and data collection purposes police need to know what happened and what systems were affected. (For example, it may impact the ability to pay employees.) Crowley doesn’t like when organizations pay ransoms, because it only rewards criminals. However, he admitted that if a firm doesn’t have a clean backup and free decryption keys aren’t available from security vendors it will have its back to the wall. One problem, he said, is that there are still companies and municipalities that don’t believe they’ll be hit – they think ‘I’m too small.’ However, in an interview Crowley shied away from blaming management. The problem, he said, is hackers are creating sophisticated malware and phishing attacks that some people fall for. “You could have the strongest IT at the end of the day people are your weakest link.” Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security MISA, postmedia, ransomware, security strategies Allow municipalities to share their IT product security assessments, urges infosec pro Telus IoT Shop lets businesses buy IoT data without credit checks About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada