https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/healthcare-organizations-and-dns-as-a-layer-of-defence-and-intelligence/416205
Healthcare organizations and DNS as a layer of defence and intelligence | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Healthcare organizations and DNS as a layer of defence and intelligence Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: March 21st, 2019 Mark Gaudet from the Canadian Internet Registration Authority (CIRA) bears some grim news about Canadian healthcare organizations today. The move to electronic data records has made healthcare organizations a real target of cyber criminals, he said in a recent webinar Preparing for the Big Hack in Healthcare. “Healthcare data in the form of patient records and information about doctors provides cyber-criminals with all the information they need to do identity theft, to commit fraud, and to cross-reference personal information to implement other kinds of cyber crime.” Gaudet agreed with ITWC CIO Jim Love’s opinion that hacking, which was once done by “vandals” and other such troublemakers, is now a big business, and that those — like healthcare organizations — that are in high-value areas have cause to be concerned. Download a copy of the presentation: Preparing for the Big Hack in Healthcare “Patient records are of a high resale value, so they show up for sale on the dark web,” said Gaudet. “In large bulk sets, they’re in the order of a dollar per record, but can go as high as $1,000 per record for specific individual records.” “Patient data is a high-value asset that needs to be protected, and if access to records is lost, a hospital or doctor’s office can just shut down.” Gaudet presented a Stats Canada survey comparison of four sectors — Hospitals, Utilities, Air Transportation, and Finance — when it comes to anti-malware, web security, email security, and network security. “In this survey,” he said, “it looks like hospitals have a really good security posture, and have taken steps across multiple layers to protect themselves.” There was cause for concern, however, when — consulting the same Statscan survey — Gaudet found that each hospital in Canada experienced an average of 15 cybersecurity incidents last year: Unauthorized access: 6 Ransom or theft: 4 Defacement of web presence: 1 Theft of information: 1 Theft of intellectual property or business data: 1 Unknown: 2 “These weren’t just regular incidents,” he said, “these were ones that impacted their day-to-day operations.” Despite having a high security posture and implementing different layers, healthcare organizations appear to be experiencing a significant number of security incidents. This fact begs the question of what must be done to plug the holes and cut down drastically on the number of breaches that are happening. Gaudet’s answer: defence in depth. “The organizations we’re working with are really focusing on defence in depth — implementing multiple layers of defence. No one layer is, on its own, going to be perfect, but the overall level of security increases as you add layers.” “What we’re seeing is that DNS is emerging as a key critical layer of defence. It has high value, requires a low level of effort to implement, and is really effective.” Gaudet is crystal clear on why DNS is so highly effective. “It’s used by every application, whether malicious or good. It’s used by every device on a network, from laptops to phone and any other device that uses DNS for communication. It’s basically built into the fabric of the Internet.” A key point is that over 91 per cent of malware uses DNS for command and control. “So by observing the DNS,” said Gaudet, “you can see what malware is inside the network, and can provide another layer from which you can disable it. DNS is a layer of both defence and intelligence. Download a copy of the presentation to find out how DNS helps organizations in the healthcare sector better secure their data. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Cira, cybersecurity, dns, healthcare Technology bringing about a new era in education and collaboration Canada, EU share ways to blunt hybrid threats About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Azure NetApp files become HIPAA compliant Maple launches free online screening and consultation solution in response to COVID-19 Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada