https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-facebook-and-taxes-cyborg-locusts-wheres-the-love-snapchat/427425
Hashtag Trending – Facebook and taxes, Cyborg locusts, where's the love Snapchat? | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Facebook and taxes, Cyborg locusts, where’s the love Snapchat? Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: February 18th, 2020 Facebook says it’ll pay more taxes in Europe, mechanically enhanced locusts sniff out bombs for the military, and thousands of people are wondering why Team Snapchat left them hanging on Valentine’s Day. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg says “I guess we should pay more taxes” during the Munich Security Conference in Germany. Zuckerberg is throwing his support behind international digital tax reforms that would require Silicon Valley tech giants to pay more tax in Europe. As of this recording, only excerpts of his speech are available, and ABC News is reporting that Zuckerberg says, “I understand that there’s frustration about how tech companies are taxed in Europe.” He goes on to say “we accept that may mean we have to pay more tax and pay it in different places under a new framework.” https://abcnews.go.com/International/wireStory/zuckerberg-accepts-facebook-pay-tax-68985247 OneZero is reporting that scientists funded by the United States Navy have successfully augmented locusts and hijacked their ability to sense various chemical odors and explosives. The research paper referenced in the story explains how scientists transformed the bugs into bomb detectors by implanting electrodes into the insects’ brains. The story has gone viral on Twitter, and in addition to some very appropriate Fifth Element references, a small debate broke out about whether or not it’s ethical to experiment on insects like this. You can find a link to the full story on IT World Canada . com Research funded by the U.S. Navy could spell the end of bomb-sniffing dogs. https://t.co/p3FP656cpM — OneZero (@ozm) February 13, 2020 Apparently for thousands of people, the only bright spot on Valentine’s Day is the cheery message from Team Snapchat. This weekend those people were left hanging and they took to Twitter to express their sadness and frustration. Interestingly enough, there were some who did receive their Team Snapchat Valentine’s Day message and decided to tell the world how happy they were. Sigh … https://www.linkedin.com/feed/news/unhappy-v-day-for-dating-apps-4508515/ Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Facebook cancels conference, IBM pulls out of RSA over coronavirus worries New categories, new opportunities for Canadian CIOs at 2020 CIO of the Year Awards About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada