https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/chinese-based-threat-actor-act-fast-when-vulnerabilities-found-warns-fireeye/429031
Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image by PeopleImages | Getty Images Privacy & Security Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: March 30th, 2020 The recent attempt by a Chinese-based threat actor to exploit vulnerabilities in enterprise products from Citrix, Cisco Systems and Zoho is a good example of why patches have to be tested and installed as soon as possible, a new report from FireEye suggests. The report issued last week focuses on a group dubbed APT41, which between Jan. 20 and March 11 attempted to exploit vulnerabilities in Citrix NetScaler/ADC, Cisco routers, and Zoho ManageEngine Desktop Central at over 75 FireEye customers, including Australia, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, India, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the UAE, the U.K. and the United States. The campaign started 10 days after Citrix publicly revealed a vulnerability (CVE-2019-19781) had been found in Citrix Application Delivery Controller (ADC), formerly known as NetScaler ADC, and Citrix Gateway, formerly known as NetScaler Gateway, and Citrix SD-WAN WANOP appliance. The bug could allow an unauthenticated attacker to perform arbitrary code execution. “This new activity from this group shows how resourceful and how quickly they can leverage newly disclosed vulnerabilities to their advantage,” says the report. Related: Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Citrix released a mitigation patch for CVE-2019-19781 on December 17, 2019. As of Jan. 24, it had released permanent fixes for all supported versions of Citrix ADC, Gateway, and SD-WAN WANOP. While APT41 was looking for devices to exploit its real activity started February 1, suggesting that network admins that had applied the fixes would have been protected. The report says on Feb. 21 a Cisco Small Business RV320 router at an unnamed telecommunications company was exploited by the gang and a file was downloaded. It isn’t known what exploit was used. Then on March 8, APT41 attempted to exploit a vulnerability announced three days earlier (CVE-2020-10189) in some versions of the Zoho ManageEngine Desktop Central in more than a dozen FireEye customers. Five of those were actually hacked. FireEye says it’s unclear if APT41 scanned the Internet and attempted exploitation en masse or selected a subset of specific organizations to target. However, because the initial knocking on doors was only against Citrix devices it suggests APT41 had an already-known list of identified devices accessible on the internet. FireEye believes the group has the backing of China and is known for conducting espionage for the government as well as a financially-motivated activity for itself. The report notes the recent exploit attempts try to install publicly available backdoors such as Cobalt Strike and Meterpreter. “In previous incidents, APT41 has waited to deploy more advanced malware until they have fully understood where they were and carried out some initial reconnaissance. In 2020, APT41 continues to be one of the most prolific threats that FireEye currently tracks.” Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security FireEye, postmedia, security strategies Cyber Security Today - A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada