https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/google-bolsters-g-suite-hangouts-with-enterprise-features-amidst-coronavirus-outbreak/428053
Google bolsters G Suite Hangouts with enterprise features amidst coronavirus outbreak | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Software Google bolsters G Suite Hangouts with enterprise features amidst coronavirus outbreak Tom Li @itworldca Published: March 4th, 2020 As the coronavirus outbreak continues to develop, Google is releasing advanced features to Hangout Meets for all G Suite and G Suite for Education users free of charge. New features include: Larger meetings, for up to 250 participants per call Live streaming for up to 100,000 viewers within a domain The ability to record meetings and save them to Google Drive These features were previously only available through Google’s enterprise G Suite clients. All features will be free until July 1st, 2020. Related: In response to COVID-19, Cisco is handing out free 90-day Webex business licenses Microsoft is also extending a free six-month premium trial for its Teams communications app. According to Business Insider, interested parties must set up the trial by contacting Microsoft sales or a Microsoft partner. Since the COVID-19 outbreak, many employees are now working from home to minimize the potentials to get sick. Both Google and Microsoft have cancelled upcoming events due to COVID-19. Yesterday, Google announced that it would be cancelling its Google I/O 2020 event originally planned for May 12th in California. Instead, it’s looking to replace the on-site conference with remote briefings. Similarly, Microsoft has also turned to remote coverage for its MVP Summit on March 15th. As of March 3, 2020, there have been 33 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Canada. Of those, 20 were in Ontario, 12 in British Columbia, and one in Quebec. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace, Software communication services, COVID-19, desktop, Google, Hangouts, remote workforce B.C. district of Squamish hit by ransomware Saskatoon firm says its quantum-resistant solution can withstand brute force attacks About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Insulating your business from COVID-19 impacts TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Telus says it’s providing free high-speed internet to low-income families for 60 days in response to COVID-29 Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada