https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-facebook-pays-for-your-data-ai-finds-new-antibiotic-instagram-music-comes-to-canada/427656
Hashtag Trending- Facebook pays for your data; AI finds new antibiotic; Instagram Music comes to Canada | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending- Facebook pays for your data; AI finds new antibiotic; Instagram Music comes to Canada Tom Li @itworldca Published: February 24th, 2020 Facebook plays the Uno reverse card and buys your data, MIT discovered a new potent antibiotic compound using AI, and Instagram Music has finally come to Canada. Thank you for tuning into Hashtag Trending, it’s Monday, February 24th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Google, Facebook will now pay money to improve its voice recognition data. Through Viewpoints, Facebook’s research app, a select number of users will be chosen to ask Portal, Facebook’s home device, to call a friend. Repeating the task 10 times earns you 200 points in the app. Once you’ve collected 1,000, you can convert them into a cool $5. Unfortunately, each participant will only be able to transact once, so it isn’t a great way to get rich quick. Trending on Google, MIT has discovered a new antibiotic compound that can kill even the most resilient bacterias. The algorithm derived the antibiotic formula in mere days after scanning through more than 100 million chemical compounds. The new antibiotic attacks bacteria using unconventional mechanisms and was able to clear infections in two different mouse models. Using machine learning to explore potential drugs is significantly cheaper and much quicker than current methods, which could lead to more potent and affordable drugs. Trending on LinkedIn, Instagram Music has finally landed in Canada. This tool finally allows Canadian Instagrammers to insert homegrown Canadian music into their stories and posts. To use it, navigate to the sticker icon and select the Music sticker from Instagram’s camera. If you feel like the timing is apt, you can also use songs to reply to questions posted in your friend’s stories. There’s a breadth of new musical effects as well to give the same song new perspectives. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Four Canadian privacy watchdogs start investigation of facial recognition service Cyber Security Today - Google cracks down on bad apps, and data on millions of Americans found open on the Internet About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada