https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-capital-one-data-breach-banning-autoplay-videos-skype-for-business-ending/420479
Hashtag Trending – Capital One data breach; banning autoplay videos; Skype for Business ending | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Capital One data breach; banning autoplay videos; Skype for Business ending Tom Li @itworldca Published: July 31st, 2019 Capital One data breach affects 100 million customers, the U.S. is considering banning autoplay videos, Microsoft to retire Skype for Business. That’s all the tech news that’s trending today. It’s Wednesday, July 31th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending everywhere, a hacker has stolen 100 million Capital One customer records, six million of which belong to Canadians. The stolen database comprises personal details — names, addresses, postal codes, and even one million social insurance numbers. Affect customers are Capital One credit card holders between 2005 to 2019. For victims of the breach, Capital One is offering free credit monitoring and identity protection. Trending on Google, the U.S. may instate a new bill that would ban autoplay videos and infinite scrolling websites. The new bill is proposed by Senator Josh Hawley, and is part of the Social Media Addiction Reduction Technology Act, which targets internet content that’s designed to be addictive. Hawley compares these practices to infinitely refilling a wine glass without the drinker’s knowledge and argues that it entices the user to continue consumption. If the bill passes, social media companies would need to provide users with stats on their site usage. Lastly, trending on Reddit, Microsoft will be ending Skype for Business on July 31, 2021. The announcement has been foreshadowed for two years since the release of Microsoft Teams. Microsoft says that Skype for Business will continue to be operational and supported until its end of life, Also, starting September, Microsoft will be removing the option to enroll to Skype for Business for all new Office 365 customers and offer Teams instead. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag, hashtag trending, podcasts Canadians must avoid desensitization to data breaches and lobby for stronger penalties, cybersecurity experts say Microsoft to drop Skype for Business Online and replace with Teams in 2021 About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada