https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-apples-video-streaming-service-huawei-p30-launch-leak-pinterest-ipo/416264
Hashtag Trending – Apple's video streaming service; Huawei P30 launch leak; Pinterest IPO | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Apple’s video streaming service; Huawei P30 launch leak; Pinterest IPO Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: March 25th, 2019 Apple launches its Netflix competitor; Huawei will unveil its P30 smartphones; and Pinterest will go public sooner than expected. Today Apple will unveil is video streaming service at an event in the Steve Jobs Theater in Cupertino. The long-anticipated Netflix competitor will have both its own original content and partnerships with other premium brands. MobileSyrup reports Some pretty famous names have been hinted at for the original content so far. Those include Steven Spielberg, J.J. Abrams, and Oprah. There have been hints that Apple might give away some of that content for free, as a way to hook in users to pay for content from partners. Rumours have mentioned potential deals with HBO and Showtime. But that is likely to be different in the U.S. compared to Canada, due to existing licensing deals. Tomorrow, Chinese electronics manufacturer Huawei will unveil its P30 smartphone at an event in Paris. Some details about the device leaked last week, so we know it will have four cameras. That will include a 40 megapixel sensor and a 10x hybrid zoom. The P30 Pro will have a low light sensor. There’s also an interesting video mode, which will show you a split screen of the video from two different cameras at once. You’ll be able to choose between the wide-angle view, or the close-up view. Huawei will also release some new smart watches at the event. Pinterest is planning to IPO sooner than expected, Bloomberg reports. The social, image-sharing website is pegged at a value of $12.3 billion based on its fundraising. The firm was founded in 2010. It opened its Canadian office in Toronto just last September. It’s run by country manager Erin Elofson. Many other Silicon Valley startups plan to go public this year, including Lyft, Uber, Slack, and AirBnB. Careers Apple, hashtag trending, Huawei, Pinterest, podcasts Cyber Security Today - Phony flu email alert, more on business scams and GitHub warning Ronald McDonald House Charities Toronto helps families feel at home with Flybits-powered mobile app About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Huawei Watch GT 2 ups the ante in functionality Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada