https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/industry-leaders-explore-the-challenges-and-potential-benefits-of-5g/418722
Industry leaders explore the challenges and potential benefits of 5G | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Digital Transformation Industry leaders explore the challenges and potential benefits of 5G Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: June 4th, 2019 Some might look at 5G technology as nothing special – just “the next upgrade” and no more special than was the jump from 3G to 4G roughly a decade ago. Certainly the cynical element among us would dampen all the hype around the promises of 5G – more speed, less latency, broader application, et cetera – by pointing out that 5G will take years to fully roll out. Nonetheless the fact remains that 5G, as part of a greater convergence of technologies involving 5G, AI, blockchain, and the IOT, will enable a fully meshed world of wirelessly connected everything, woven seamlessly into the fabric of modern living, imbuing our environment with an intelligence that evaluates and responds to us. One thing’s for sure: 5G will bring speed, and lots of it. The International Telecommunication Union (ITU) has defined key 5G performance requirements as being a peak minimum download speed of 20Gb/s, a peak minimum upload rate of 10Gb/s, as well as millisecond latencies and support for 100 devices per square meter (or one million devices per square kilometre). There is clearly a great deal of excitement around 5G, with some likening the upgrade from 4G to 5G as being something in the order of an upgrade from 56K dial-up to cable Internet. However, what’s most needed at this stage is an clear and even analysis of what 5G could mean … for better and for worse. In the TELUS publication “Delivering on the Promise of 5G: A Game Changer for Canadian Industry,” PCL Chief Information Officer Mark Bryant and SmartONE Solutions President Ted Maulucci discuss the challenges and growing pains of bringing the world up to a 5G standard. Also discussed are the enormous potential benefits of 5G, including: 5G will make possible even more technological disruption From “smart” communities to “smarter” communities 5G as a path to building community Huge economic benefits and more jobs created Download “Delivering on the Promise of 5G” Artificial Intelligence, Digital Transformation 4g, 5G, Internet of Things, IoT, Telus, wireless A refreshingly realistic approach to digital transformation - Gartner's first Canadian Symposium CISOs have to work closer with business, says Gartner analyst About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Telus says it’s providing free high-speed internet to low-income families for 60 days in response to COVID-29 Telus to donate $10 million to address public healthcare crisis Bell, Rogers, Telus and others temporarily remove internet data caps Koodo admits February data breach, data already being sold on dark web Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada