https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/alphabets-sidewalk-labs-partners-with-ontario-teachers-pension-to-develop-infrastructure/421436
Alphabet's Sidewalk labs partners with Ontario Teacher's Pension to develop infrastructure | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Alphabet’s Sidewalk labs partners with Ontario Teacher’s Pension to develop infrastructure Tom Li @itworldca Published: August 30th, 2019 Sidewalk Labs LLC, an Alphabet subsidiary, has partnered with Ontario Teacher’s Pension Plan to develop smart infrastructure solutions. Sidewalk Infrastructure Partners (SIP) is a detachment from Sidewalk Labs and focuses on five key verticals including advanced mobility, energy, water and waste, digital infrastructure, and social infrastructure. Innovations from their collaboration would also help construct the Sidewalk Labs smart city at on a government-owned stretch of land at Queens Quay. Spanning just 12 acres, the Queens Quay is Sidewalk Lab’s testing ground and the first phase of a much grander project. Sidewalk Labs is a smart city project looking to deeply integrate technology into underlying city infrastructures. It plans to use smart sensors and AI to detect patterns in traffic and energy use, reduce housing costs, and increase sustainability. Given the data-centric nature of its systems, Sidewalk Labs has faced heavy criticisms over its lackluster privacy and security practices, as well as the ambition of its scope. Upon releasing its 1,500 page master blueprint in June, the Alphabet-owned subsidiary was criticized for not having concrete plans to enforce personal data privacy and security. Ann Cavoukian, a former advisor for Sidewalk Labs, resigned over the project’s muddy de-identification process, which helps to unlink collected data from an identifiable individual. Waterfront Toronto, the organization governing the Sidewalk Lab’s land use, also received flak from the Canadian Civil Liberties Association (CCLA) for overstepping its boundaries and allowing a private organization to breach an unregulated territory. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure Alphabet, Google, sidewalk labs, smart city Ontario to ban classroom cellphone use starting November SAS seeing a 105% growth in AI revenue is no mistake, says IDC About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone Google bolsters G Suite Hangouts with enterprise features amidst coronavirus outbreak Google announces startup accelerator in Waterloo and new office in Toronto Say hello to Microsoft’s new Chromium-based browser Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada