https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/new-apps-for-business-mobile-banking-are-gaining-momentum/421756
New apps for business mobile banking are gaining momentum | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Ecommerce New apps for business mobile banking are gaining momentum Cindy Baker @itworldca Published: September 12th, 2019 At the Business Development Bank of Canada (BDC), account managers use iPads to authorize loans for entrepreneurs of up to $750,000 in less than 30 minutes. BDC’s Express Loan application is part of its commitment to develop online and mobile capabilities to make it easier and faster for entrepreneurs to obtain financing. Indeed, research shows that Canadians, especially millennials, increasingly expect to do their banking on their phones. Attend the Case Study Webinar: Revolutionizing Digital Loan Applications? A December 2018 survey conducted by Abacus Data found that 56 per cent of Canadians used mobile banking in 2018 — a remarkable increase from 44 per cent in 2016 and 31 per cent in 2014. Thirty-two per cent of financial transactions are done with a mobile device, according to the Canadian Bankers Association. The transition hasn’t always been easy for financial institutions. Legacy IT infrastructure creates challenges for integrating new applications. As well, banks must ensure that new online services are fully compliant with financial and privacy regulations. However, those that are successfully transforming their business are providing a better customer experience, while saving time and improving the profit margin for the company. That’s why financial institutions are prioritizing the expansion of the mobile channel by integrating existing and new processes. For BDC, Canada’s bank for entrepreneurs, the ability to improve service for account managers while maintaining the face-to-face customer connection was a key benefit to developing a mobile solution. On October 2nd, join HomeEquity Bank CIO Alizabeth Calder and special guests Jorge Oliveira of BDC and Sam Bakken of OneSpan for “Revolutionizing Digital Loan Applications.” In this hour-long session, Calder, Oliveira, and Bakken will share how electronic signature integration into a native mobile app revolutionized digital commercial loan application and closings for BDC without compromising security or compliance. Also covered in this session: Top criteria and considerations for financial institutions looking to design or launch a mobile app Which key stakeholders to involve, and how to take a unified approach to integration Best practices to ensure optimal design and workflows that lead to high adoption rates Ecommerce business Development Bank, digital finance, FinTech, OneSpan IBM announces new z15 mainframe for the enterprise Cyber Security Today - University library password scam, police break up email fraud racket and just say no About Cindy Baker Cindy Baker has over 20 years of experience in IT-related fields in the public and private sectors, as a lawyer and strategic advisor. She is a former broadcast journalist, currently working as a consultant, freelance writer and editor. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content U of T launches FinTech boot camp Canadian open banking review turns to answering data security questions Loans by phone: revolutionizing digital loan applications Collision 2019: TD calls for banks to collaborate more with fintech startups on AI solutions Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada