https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/during-a-crisis-use-and-disclosure-of-personal-information-may-be-extended-can-be-very-broad-says-regulator/428785
During a crisis, use and disclosure of personal information may be extended, 'can be very broad' says regulator | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Source: SinArtCreative | Getty Images Privacy & Security During a crisis, use and disclosure of personal information may be extended, ‘can be very broad’ says regulator Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: March 23rd, 2020 Canadian public and private sector organizations generally are allowed to collect and disclose personal information only with the consent of individuals. But the COVID-19 pandemic has raised questions about the ability of organizations to share certain personal information at a time when Canada is in crisis. However, Canada’s privacy commissioner says the situation doesn’t mean privacy laws prevent some personal information from being shared with the right people or authorities. “During a public health crisis, privacy laws still apply but they are not a barrier to appropriate information sharing,” the Office of the Privacy Commissioner said in guidance issued Friday. “Public health situations are sometimes referred to as emergencies. Under both federal and provincial laws, governments are authorized to declare formal public emergencies. Where that is done, the powers to collect, use and disclose personal information may be further extended and can be very broad. To understand the impact of such legislation on privacy, one has to read its specific terms. Normal privacy laws apply unless emergency legislation provides otherwise.” Alberta, British Columbia, Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba, Nova Scotia are provinces that have declared states of emergencies, while Vancouver, Calgary and London, Ont., are among the municipalities that have done so. Because both Ottawa, the provinces and the territories have jurisdiction over health employers are urged to check all public and private sector regulators on what is allowable under a public health crisis. For example, in Alberta the provincial Health Information Act allows health data custodians to disclose health information without consent in some circumstances to avert or minimize an imminent danger to the health or safety of any person, to a person responsible for continuing treatment and care for the individual, and to law enforcement officials where the custodian reasonably believes the information relates to a possible offence and the disclosure will protect the health and safety of Albertans. “If an outbreak is declared to be a public emergency,” the Alberta privacy commissioner’s guidance adds, “the powers to collect, use and disclose personal or health information to protect the public health may be very broad.” The federal Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA) applies to private-sector organizations that collect, use or disclose personal information for commercial activity, and to information about employees of federal works, undertakings or businesses. PIPEDA allows organizations to collect, use or disclose information only for purposes that a reasonable person would consider appropriate in the circumstances. Organizations are required to obtain the knowledge and meaningful consent of the individual for the collection, use, or disclosure of their personal information. However there are some circumstances under which organizations may collect, use, or disclose personal information without the consent of the individual, including: If the collection is clearly in the interests of the individual and consent cannot be obtained in a timely way, such as if an individual is critically ill or in a particularly dangerous situation, and needs help; If the collection and use is for the purpose of making a disclosure required by law. For instance, this would include where a public health authority has the legislative authority to require the disclosure; If the disclosure is requested by a government institution under lawful authority to obtain the information and the disclosure is for the purpose of enforcing or administering any law of Canada or a province. Again, this would include instances where a public health authority has the legislative authority to require the disclosure; If the disclosure is made on the initiative of the organization to a government institution, which has reasonable grounds to believe that the information relates to a contravention of the laws of Canada, a province or a foreign jurisdiction that has been, is being or is about to be committed. This would include if an organization believes an individual is in contravention of an invoked quarantine order; If the use or disclosure is for the purpose of acting in respect of an emergency that threatens the life, health or security of an individual, such as if an individual requires urgent medical attention, and they are unable to communicate directly with medical professionals. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security COVID-19, postmedia, privacy Cyber Security Today - Database with 5 billion records left open, Rogers warns Canadians of data exposure and FBI warns of financial help scam A quick guide for businesses navigating Canada's COVID-19 Economic Response Plan About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Insulating your business from COVID-19 impacts TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada