https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-ditch-cellphone-during-breaks-apple-reissues-security-patch-apple-saving-amazon-rainforest/421350
Hashtag Trending – Ditch cellphone during breaks; Apple reissues security patch; Apple saving Amazon rainforest | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Ditch cellphone during breaks; Apple reissues security patch; Apple saving Amazon rainforest Tom Li @itworldca Published: August 28th, 2019 Using phones during breaks can prevent your brain from resting, Apple re-issues a security patch, Tim Cook pledges to help save the Amazon rainforest. That’s all the tech news that’s trending today. It’s Wednesday, August 28th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Reddit, using your phone may prevent your brain from recharging. In a research study conducted by Rutgers University with 414 undergraduates, students who used cellphones during their breaks had poorer performance in solving anagrams. They performed only slightly better than those who took no breaks, and was even worse than computer users. In its conclusion, the research paper says that breaks might be better spent without the cellphone. So the next time you feel tired, go for some fresh air. Trending on Reddit, Apple is re-patching an unpatched security patch in iPhones. Update 12.4.1 for iOS fixes an arbitrary code execution vulnerability. The bizarre part, though, is that it had already been patched in May and somehow was removed in June. Now that Apple has re-issued the update, it’s encouraging all iPhone users to upgrade once again to maintain security. Trending on Reddit again, amidst the raging fire in the Amazon rainforest, Apple CEO Tim Cook has pledged to donate to the preservation effort. In a Tweet, Cook said that the Amazon rainforest is indispensable and is one of the world’s most important ecosystems. In 2019, the number of fires in Brazil is up by 85 per cent compared to 2018. Experts attributed the cause to climate change and Brazil’s environmental policies. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Samsung Galaxy Note 10+ review: a paragon of costly excellence Cyber Security Today - How to be safe going back to school About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada