https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/technology-bringing-about-a-new-era-in-education-and-collaboration/416201
Technology bringing about a new era in education and collaboration | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Mobility Wireless & IoT Technology bringing about a new era in education and collaboration Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: March 21st, 2019 From the use of connected mobile devices to the proliferation of online learning programs, technology is bringing about a new era in education — one that challenges old assumptions about learning, such as that face-to-face is the best or only way to go, or that true learning takes a long time. To these and other such assumptions is coming evidence saying otherwise: Learning through e-learning requires 40 to 60 per cent less time than learning that takes place in a “traditional” classroom. (Source: Brandon-Hall Group study) E-learning retention rates are between 25 and 60 per cent, while face-to-face learning results in retention rates of only eight to 10 per cent. (Source: Research Institute of America) Register for webinar: Creating a New World of Learning and Collaboration One of the more rapidly growing trends at all levels of education is the use of tablets, laptops, and other mobile devices. And yet, until recently, mobile devices were being used almost exclusively as substitutes for books and handouts and pen and paper. However, these technologies are of late being used to transform how instruction and learning actually takes place. Through the use of mobile devices, teachers are swapping out old models of standardized learning-by-memory for dynamic, personalized, and self-directed learning experiences for students. Students today are not only comfortable around technology, but in fact respond very favourably to it. They are not confined to traditional learning environments, but are learning — or open to learning — any time, from anywhere, on any device. Education should now cover this base and others, including: increasing the potential for learning and teaching through collaboration with peers and experts, regardless of location; updating workspaces to increase productivity; and providing unlimited access to educational resources, regardless of location or device On April 23rd, join ITWC CIO and Chief Digital Officer Jim Love and Cisco education advocate Dr. Lance Ford for “Creating a New World of Learning and Collaboration,” which presents a reimagined educational experience through digital learning. Among the topics to be discussed in this one-hour webinar: Better learning using any device, anywhere, at any time Securely linking students, teachers, peers, parents and subject matter experts Increasing student engagement and collaboration by individualizing and differentiating the instruction Register now to attend “Creating a New World of Learning and Collaboration.” Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Mobility, Wireless & IoT Cisco, collaboration, learning, Mobile Hashtag Trending - New AirPods released; Firefox update blocks autoplay video; EU fines Google $1.7B Healthcare organizations and DNS as a layer of defence and intelligence About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cisco commits $225 million to COVID-19 response Suddenly working from home and need a solution that works? Here are some options Cisco leadership undergoes another shuffle involving Amy Chang and David Goeckeler In response to COVID-19, Cisco is handing out free 90-day Webex business licenses Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada