https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ontario-science-centre-suffers-data-breach-exposes-174000-names-and-addresses/423422
Ontario Science Centre suffers data breach, exposes 174,000 names and addresses | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. A few kids enjoy an interactive display at the Ontario Science Centre | File photo. Privacy & Security Public Sector Ontario Science Centre suffers data breach, exposes 174,000 names and addresses Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: October 30th, 2019 The names and email addresses of 174,000 members, donors, and customers of camps and birthday parties at the Ontario Science Centre were exposed in August, according to the company that does email blasts for the provincially owned tourist attraction. The breach was made public Monday evening when the Science Centre alerted its newsletter subscribers, although the Science Centre has been aware of the breach since August 16 when they were alerted by Campaigner, an Ottawa-based firm the Science Centre uses for email campaigns. The alert sent to those affected stated that no other personal information was exposed. According to the investigation by Campaigner, the breach occurred when a former employee’s credentials were used between July 23 and August 7 to access and download data from the Science Centre account that houses data related to mailings, newsletters, and invitations. Campaigner will also be cooperating to help track down the perpetrator, according to the alert sent by the Science Centre. Vanessa Lu, a spokesperson for the Ontario Science Centre, told the Toronto Star that Brian Beamish, the Ontario Information and Privacy Commissioner, was alerted by the Science Centre on October 3, and added that both the Science Centre and Campaigner will be reviewing their data security and retention policies. “We have an open investigation, and our staff is working with the (Science Centre) to ensure the cause of the breach is fully investigated and that appropriate steps are being taken to contain the breach and prevent a reoccurrence,” Beamish wrote in an email to The Star. “Under Ontario’s privacy law, it is not mandatory for public sector institutions to notify individuals who may be affected by a breach, but it is certainly a best practice and we encourage institutions to notify as soon as is reasonably possible.” Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Public Sector data breach, Ontario Science Centre Cyber Security Today - Cancer Society web site hacked, blogs spreading sextortion and a hole in Adobe security Twitter says it will no longer accept political advertising on its platform About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Koodo admits February data breach, data already being sold on dark web Winnipeg-based online pharmacy warns of data breach Hashtag Trending – Facebook admits to another data leak, Netflilx’s war on password sharing, Google voice-assistant training Trend Micro admits staffer stole and sold customer data Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada