https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/december-2014-in-review-an-itwc-classic-retires/100637
December 2014 in review: An ITWC classic retires | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Leadership Mobility Privacy & Security Wireless & IoT December 2014 in review: An ITWC classic retires Nestor E. Arellano @NestorArellano Published: December 13th, 2014 Deadlines, year-end reviews and 2015 predictions were coming from all sides, but at IT World Canada the big news was the departure Howard Solomon, editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. “From the early days of the Internet as a force in mainstream society to Web 2.0 and now the Internet of Things; from PCs to laptops to smartphones and now wearables; from print media to social media to apps; from desktop software to software as a service,” writes Shane Schick, editor-at-large of IT World Canada and long-time friend of Howard. “It’s difficult to imagine that a single journalist could have been on the front lines of so many changes, much less a journalist as dedicated to providing the best possible coverage of those changes.” Howard, however, will be back in 2015 to write security stories for ITWorldCanada.com. Privacy commissioners from 22 jurisdictions, including Canada, call on Apple, Google, Samsung, Microsoft, Nokia, BlackBerry, Amazon.com and other mobile app stores to point buyers to the privacy policies of every app in their inventory that can access or collect personal information. Telus Corp. announces it is launching an Internet of Things (IoT) marketplace that will open up featuring 38 different solutions the telco and its partners can offer. BlackBerry, Microsoft, Google and RSA become part of alliance backing open biometrics standard that the group said will bring an end to passwords. Globally, data loss and downtime costs enterprise organizations $1.7 trillion and $16.8 billion in Canada in the last 12 months, according to survey results released by EMC Corp. Finally some good news. The majority of Canadian chief information officers will be hiring more IT professionals in 2015, according to a report from recruitment firm Robert Half Technology. Time to update that resume. Careers, Leadership, Mobility, Privacy & Security, Wireless & IoT CIOs, data loss, IT hiring, IT professionals, mobile apps, privacy policies November 2014 in review: A Canadian classic makes a comeback IT offshoring helps businesses grow: IDC About Nestor E. Arellano Toronto-based journalist specializing in technology and business news. Blogs and tweets on the latest tech trends and gadgets. Follow Follow @NestorArellano on Twitter Join Nestor E. Arellano on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Becoming a tech-savvy director; Moving to the boardroom How to get AI right and keep it that way Ronald McDonald House Charities Toronto helps families feel at home with Flybits-powered mobile app How to fight digital transformation fatigue Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada