https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/explore-all-the-changes-in-canadian-financial-services-security-in-a-single-day/427964
Explore all the changes in Canadian financial services security in a single day | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Explore all the changes in Canadian financial services security in a single day IT World Canada @itworldca Published: March 2nd, 2020 Financial services is at a crossroads right now. One of the main challenges facing professionals in this industry is around moving to the future from the legacy they have today. But doing so is easier said than done, and with only 30 per cent of finance transformations delivering on the forecasted benefits to the business, the path to the future is far from certain. Like all industries, finance is dealing with, and in the process trying to best leverage on, new technologies. All the while, personalized digital interactions is fast becoming the baseline expectation of customers – a kind of “entry fee” paid by companies that are committed to their customers. The customer in 2020 is not the customer from 2010. Customer expectations are changing daily, and this is creating a business imperative to transform digital experiences. Consumers expect their dealings with financial services companies to be based on intelligent insight formed over time, with engagements being timely, personalized, and always in the proper context. While managing all these shifts is challenging enough for organizations, there is also the security factor to consider. As more and more data is collected on each customer, companies must prove themselves – and keep proving themselves – trustworthy, smart about threats, and proactive about keeping data safe from bad actors. Canadian financial services organizations will be gathering in number on March 24th for a summit called “Securing the Complete Digital Customer Journey.” This full-day gathering will bring together industry professionals who are facing similar digital-era challenges for a lively exchange of ideas and plans for future action. Among the topics covered over the course of the day: Digital identity in 2020 and in the future How to break barriers in digital account opening Shared services for enterprise deployments Revolutionizing digital loans applications using secure mobile apps Addressing fraud with risk analytics countermeasures Attendees will come away from this experience with a better idea of how to proceed in an increasingly fast-paced digital economy. This will be a great learning opportunity as well as an excellent chance to network with friends and peers. Reserve your spot now Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation customer, digital, Finance, financial, Technology Maze posts data allegedly stolen from PEI in ransomware attack Rajeev Suri to step down as president and CEO of Nokia Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: OVHcloud Choosing the right cloud for your business Don’t waste a good crisis: 6 real-life lessons in digital transformation Shaping Canada’s aspirations for a competitive 2030 digital based economy Paving the way for the future of healthcare Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada