https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/vmware-goes-on-a-shopping-spree-scoops-up-carbon-black-and-pivotal-for-a-combined-4-8b/421164
VMware goes on a shopping spree, scoops up Carbon Black and Pivotal for a combined $4.8B | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. VMware CEO Pat Gelsinger Cloud Infrastructure Software VMware goes on a shopping spree, scoops up Carbon Black and Pivotal for a combined $4.8B Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: August 23rd, 2019 It’s a pivotal moment for VMware Inc., which announced the acquisition of security company Carbon Black and cloud application platform Pivotal Software Aug. 22. The acquisition of Carbon Black, worth $2.1 billion, combined with the $2.7 billion purchase of Pivotal, address major priorities for the company, according to VMware CEO Pat Gelsinger: building modern, enterprise-grade applications and protecting enterprise workloads. “With these actions, we meaningfully accelerate our subscription and SaaS offerings and expand our ability to enable our customers’ digital transformation,” he said in a press release. Pivotal’s Cloud Foundry platform, which recently added support for Kubernetes, drew significant interest from VMware, the company said. VMware has been bolstering its own Kubernetes offerings in recent months, the latest release being VMware Essential PKS in February. Kubernetes is still one of the hottest container orchestration applications on the market today and is helping drive the adoption of containers overall. In 2018, only 17 per cent of IT teams were driving container adoption, according to one study. A year later, that number jumped to 35 per cent. Carbon Black will no doubt play an important role in ensuring that orchestration is done securely. The two purchases follow the company’s acquisition of Bitnami in May, making VMware, traditionally a vendor focused primarily on providing infrastructure, one of the more compelling options for enterprise customers looking to build, run, manage, connect, and protect any app on any cloud or device. “This type of bold move is exactly what the IT and security industries have been looking to see for a very long time,” said Patrick Morley, CEO, Carbon Black. You can read more about the acquisition here. Cloud, Infrastructure, Software carbon black, Kubernetes, mergers/acqusitions, Pivotal, postmedia, VMWare Study says fintech startups vulnerable to web or mobile app attacks Meet your customer experience officer: ITWC report reveals the new business role of the CIO About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada