https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ontario-to-ban-classroom-cellphone-use-starting-novemeber/421426
Ontario to ban classroom cellphone use starting November | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Source: Pexel Mobility Public Sector Ontario to ban classroom cellphone use starting November Tom Li @itworldca Published: August 30th, 2019 Ontario will be restricting cellphone use in classrooms starting Nov. 4, 2019. The new rule applies to all personal electronic devices, which include laptops, cellphones, and any device that can be used to access the internet. It also applies to both students and staff during class times. People with special needs and emergency services are exempt from the restrictions. “When in class, students should be focused on their studies, not their social media,” said Stephen Lecce, Minister of Education in a statement. “That’s why we are restricting cellphones and other personal mobile devices in the classroom, while making sure technology is available to help students achieve success in the digital economy and modern workforce.” Cellphone notifications frequently distract students from learning. In one experiment, a U.S. teacher recorded more than 1,100 social media alerts in a single period. A teacher in the U.S. had her students turn their phones on loud, and every time they received a notification they went… Posted by Joe Becigneul on Friday, March 1, 2019 A 2014 CIBC poll revealed that Canadians check their cellphones every 10 minutes on average. Unsurprisingly, young adults between 18 to 24 checked almost twice as frequently, glancing at the screen 10.1 times per hour on average. A 2013 study on cellphone use and academic performance discovered that students who were not using their mobile phones jot down 62 per cent more notes than their peers who were. In addition, the phoneless students were also able to recall more information, and scored a letter grade higher on a multiple-choice test. In fall 2019, 97 per cent of participants in the consultation on education reform agreed that cellphones use should be restricted in classrooms. Cellphone use in classrooms is a global issue. The French government banned cellphones in classrooms in July 2018. On June 29, 2019, the Australian state of Victoria also announced a cellphone ban in classrooms. The new cellphone use guideline is available on Ontario’s Provincial Code of Conduct page. Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility, Public Sector Canadian government, education, smartphone Cyber Security Today - How to be safe using social media Alphabet's Sidewalk labs partners with Ontario Teacher's Pension to develop infrastructure About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone A quick guide for businesses navigating Canada’s COVID-19 Economic Response Plan Year Zero I A Reimagination of the Future with Sophia Fairweather, One of Canada’s Brightest Young Digital Luminaries Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada