https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/blackberry-launches-digital-workplace/427064
Blackberry launches Digital Workplace | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Cloud Mobility Privacy & Security Blackberry launches Digital Workplace Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: February 7th, 2020 BlackBerry has announced the launch of Digital Workplace, a software solution that allows users to access their corporate tools – both on-premise and in the cloud – with threat detection capabilities powered by AI and machine learning. According to the press release, Digital Workplace is based on BlackBerry’s Zero Trust Architecture and is an alternative to using virtual private networks (VPNs) or virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) for those seeking added security when accessing their enterprise’s assets through a variety of endpoints. BlackBerry’s Zero Trust Architecture entails beyond authentication. It also encompasses secure file sharing, unified endpoint management, endpoint security and other safeguards. It assumes every endpoint is hostile, even ones already authenticated in the network, and therefore applies the lowest level access privilege to all users. To grant access to resources without traditional authentication methods like passwords and biometrics, it uses deep learning to turn passive biometrics into multi-factor authentication. “Unlike traditional workspace products that inhibit productivity in the name of security, BlackBerry Digital Workplace is easy to use and cost-effective, while simultaneously protecting users both online and offline,” said Billy Ho, the executive vice president of enterprise products for BlackBerry, in the press release. “Built for virtual workers in the digital age, this solution leverages the power of artificial intelligence alongside BlackBerry’s advanced networking and security features to give users an unparalleled level of productivity, security and flexibility.” Related: TCL Communication to discontinue sales of BlackBerry devices Additionally, the company also said this solution brings with it a simplified onboarding process designed for diverse workforces that include a mix of full-time workers, contractors, seasonal workers, remote workers, and partners. The solution will allow companies to provide such a diverse workforce with access to corporate email, calendar and contacts, and remote desktop and files with the understanding that they can wipe all corporate data from any devices once that individual no longer is employed with the company. Artificial Intelligence, Cloud, Mobility, Privacy & Security BlackBerry Cyber Security Today - Oscar movie scams, and make sure you update these products Hashtag Trending - Google Maps revamp, Airbnb restricts age for rentals, France fines Apple About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content BlackBerry releases updates to SecuSUITE for Government and AtHoc Crisis Communication BlackBerry report says data losses increasing due to cloud misconfiguration TCL Communication to discontinue sales of BlackBerry devices BlackBerry adds Cylance to QNX, announces partnerships with AWS, Damon, and Renovo Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada