https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/blackberry-and-university-of-waterloo-announce-plans-for-a-joint-innovation-lab/423670
Blackberry and University of Waterloo announce plans for a joint innovation lab | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. The University of Waterloo said the success of their first venture fund directly led to the creation of this second fund. Credit: University of Waterloo Public Sector Blackberry and University of Waterloo announce plans for a joint innovation lab Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: November 6th, 2019 BlackBerry and the University of Waterloo have announced plans to develop a joint innovation lab with a focus on fast-tracking research and development to get products into the market. Working out of an official partner suite on the University of Waterloo’s campus, the two organizations will look into ways that students can work with top BlackBerry R&D and business leadership teams in research, workshops, and economic development sessions. This will include sessions with Blackberry executives like the “Marketing and Sales Strategy 101” session which is due to kick off on November 12. “We are proud to have worked with the University of Waterloo for more than 30 years to help build our company and turn it into one of the world’s most recognized and celebrated technology brands,” said Charles Eagan, Blackberry’s chief technology officer, in a press release. “We are thrilled to reinvigorate our relationship which promises to strengthen the entire Canadian technology and cybersecurity industry.” Additionally, the partnership will see senior representatives from BlackBerry’s sales, product, R&D and leadership teams on campus interacting with groups like the Waterloo Centre for Automotive Research, students, and faculty to establish the future of the partnership. “We are pleased that one of Canada’s leading technology firms wants to explore ways to leverage the deep knowledge and amazing talent of Waterloo’s faculty and students,” said Charmaine Dean, the vice president of University, research and international at the University of Waterloo, in a press release. “We are keen to build on the deep partnership fostered between BlackBerry and centres like the WatCAR and expand research into new areas where Canada can lead the world in technology development.” Public Sector BlackBerry, University of Waterloo Hashtag Trending - WeWork layoffs hit Meetup; Uber profitable in 2021?; Spotify for kids Cyber Security Today - Banking security incidents and a mobile phone scam warning About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content BlackBerry releases updates to SecuSUITE for Government and AtHoc Crisis Communication University of Waterloo launches healthtech venture fund BlackBerry report says data losses increasing due to cloud misconfiguration Blackberry launches Digital Workplace Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada