https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-canadas-top-startups-messaging-app-usage-explodes-amazon-hotline/421502
Hashtag Trending – Canada's top startups, messaging app usage explodes, Amazon hotline | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Canada’s top startups, messaging app usage explodes, Amazon hotline Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: September 5th, 2019 LinkedIn lists Canada’s top startups, downloads for a specific messaging app explodes, and former Amazon employees create a hotline to report unsafe working conditions. Montreal’s Element AI is this year’s top startup, according to LinkedIn’s second annual Top 25 Startups in Canada list. Founded in 2016, Element AI builds artificial intelligence-powered software for enterprises that does things like help automate document reading and processing. To be eligible, companies must be 7 years old or younger, have at least 50 employees, be privately held and headquartered in Canada. LinkedIn says the list is determined by analyzing employee growth, jobseeker interest, member engagement with the company and its employees, and how well these startups pulled talent from LinkedIn’s Top Companies List. Twenty of the top 25 startups on the list are based in Toronto. A peer-to-peer mesh broadcasting network that doesn’t use the internet has exploded in popularity, garnering all kinds of chatter about it on Reddit. Over the past two months, San Francisco startup Bridgefy’s messaging app has experienced a 4,000 per cent spike in the number of downloads, in large part due to pro-democracy protesters downloading the app to avoid government detection. Chatting is fastest with people who are within a hundred meters, but you can also chat with people who are farther away. Messages will simply “hop” across other Bridgefy users’ phones until they find the intended target. In a recent Forbes article, Briedgefy’s CEO Jorge Rios said in addition to reducing the risk of messages being read by unwanted eyes, people are downloading the app because Honk Kong authorities are beginning to limit Internet access. Former Amazon Employees Helped Make a Hotline to Report Unsafe Working Conditions from r/technology The Free and Fair Markets, a nonprofit watchdog, is teaming up with former Amazon workers to create a hotline for reporting unsafe working conditions. While Amazon denies any wrong-doing – they even recently deployed an army of Twitter army comprised of warehouse workers tweeting about the joys of working for Amazon – the company’s poor labour conditions have been well-documented for more than a year. The hotline allows a worker to work around the fear of losing their job, and gives instructions on how to take complaints further to certain government agencies. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Alex Coop, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts U.S. trade war hits consumers with higher electronics pricing database.Database with phone numbers of millions of Facebook users found on Internet About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada