https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/july-2014-in-review-world-cup-casl-and-an-oddly-shaped-phone/100308
July 2014 in review: World Cup, CASL and an oddly shaped phone | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image from Shutterstock.com Careers Infrastructure Leadership Mobility Wireless & IoT July 2014 in review: World Cup, CASL and an oddly shaped phone Nestor E. Arellano @NestorArellano Published: December 13th, 2014 World Cup madness was still going strong around the globe in July. You can bet that scores of computer monitors in offices throughout the country were tuned to the games. It was the perfect time to report on Montreal’s Accedian Networks . The company’s gigabit Ethernet demarcation points and performance test probes were used at the 12 stadium sites, broadcast centres and airports to make sure the huge volume of traffic doesn’t overwhelm the official carrier’s local fibre optic networks. It was also about this time that businesses and individuals across Canada, were ironically being spammed by emails from organizations eager to comply with the country’s new anti-spam law. IT World Canada decided to declare its position on the Canadian Anti-Spam Legislation with a special post from company president Fawn Anan boldly titled: Why aren’t we bothering you with a notice about the CASL compliance? BlackBerry decided to break the smart phone mold with its new Passport handheld which sports a square screen and the dimensions of an actual passport. After 15 years in service, Ontario Information and Privacy Commissioner Ann Cavoukian announced she was leaving her post. Brian Jackson, ITBusiness editor, snagged an exit interview with the outgoing commissioner whose career covered the rise of social networking, the need for the government to protect digital personal information and aggressive digital marketing practices Other noteworthy development that month included: Survey results on how Canadian security pros truly feel about their architecture http://www.itworldcanada.com/article/many-canadian-security-pros-would-rip-up-their-architecture/95591 An Apple-IBM partnership http://www.itworldcanada.com/article/apple-ibm-partner-in-hopes-of-making-mobile-enterprise-powerhouse/95539 Satya Nadella open letter to Microsoft employees outlining his grand plan for the company http://www.itworldcanada.com/article/4-key-messages-in-satya-nadellas-letter-to-microsoft-employees/95430 Careers, Infrastructure, Leadership, Mobility, Wireless & IoT BlackBerry Passport, CASL, Microsoft, Privacy Commissioner June 2104 in review: Big stories from big data August 2014 in review: Wind lifts subscriber numbers About Nestor E. Arellano Toronto-based journalist specializing in technology and business news. Blogs and tweets on the latest tech trends and gadgets. Follow Follow @NestorArellano on Twitter Join Nestor E. Arellano on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Hiring neurodiverse people has given us an edge, says AirGate CEO Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada