https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/government-of-nova-scotia-launches-digital-service-team/424613
Government of Nova Scotia launches Digital Service team | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Public Sector Government of Nova Scotia launches Digital Service team Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: November 29th, 2019 In an effort to provide better digital services to its citizens and public servants, the Government of Nova Scotia launched the Nova Scotia Digital Service team today. Announced in a blog post from Nova Scotia’s chief digital officer, Natasha Clarke, the team will be responsible for delivering digital services designed around the needs of the users with the ultimate goal of delivering better government services in a digital era. “As Nova Scotia’s first chief digital officer, it’s my privilege to be leading this team as it takes its first steps,” wrote Clarke. “The internet era has changed how most of us shop, travel, communicate, exercise, watch TV, everything. It’s changing how we interact with government services too — but if we’re going to make that work, government needs to respond.” Some projects the team has already been involved with (despite just being officially announced) are online applications for Nova Scotia’s Heating Assistance Rebate Program, online Ticket Lottery Permit service, and online services for car dealership employees to submit vehicle registrations. The team will be hiring in the near future, noted Clarke. “Investing in people on the team helps us deliver for the people who matter most: the citizens of Nova Scotia,” said Clarke. “This is going to be tricky, complicated, hard work. But it’s work that matters because the results will have a direct positive effect on the lives of our friends, families, and neighbors in Nova Scotia.” Stay tuned for more. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Public Sector Government of Nova Scotia, Nova Scotia Federal court extends CRTC wholesale pricing suspension Hashtag Trending - Overconsumption protest; Canadians mad at telecoms; developer recreating the wheel About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Nova Scotia’s CDO urges other governments to create digital services teams Growing Canadian tech haven is not where you’d expect Nova Scotia mocked by privacy group for charging teen for accessing documents Nova Scotia privacy commissioner blames government department for data breaches Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada