https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hahstag-trending-facebook-facing-massive-fines-amazon-to-sell-cashier-less-tech-wrong-place-at-the-wrong-time/428334
Hashtag Trending – Facebook facing massive fines; Amazon to sell cashier-less tech; Wrong place at the wrong time | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Facebook facing massive fines; Amazon to sell cashier-less tech; Wrong place at the wrong time Tom Li @itworldca Published: March 10th, 2020 Facebook could be looking at a massive fine over the Cambridge Analytica data breach, Amazon is looking to sell its cashier-less store technology, and an innocent Florida man’s legal ordeal in a geofencing operation. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Alex Coop, thanks for listening. Trending on Twitter, the Australian Information Commissioner is taking Facebook to federal court over the Cambridge Analytica data scandal. The 2018 data breach saw millions of private Facebook information collected without proper user consent. Now, the Australian Information Commission is suing Facebook up to $1.7 million for every account that was involved in the breach. Assuming the maximum penalty is applied to all of 86.3 million affected users, Facebook could be looking at an astronomical $529 billion fine. Next, trending on Google, Amazon is considering selling its cashier-less store services to other retailers. According to a message to Reuters, Amazon already has signed several deals with interested parties. It has been testing its cashier-less checkout system for a few years now, and in February, it opened its largest automated storefront in Seattle. Unlike Amazon Go stores, however, the product in question, called Just Walk Out, requires customers to insert their credit cards before entering the store. All purchases would then be billed directly to the card. Lastly, trending on Reddit, a Florida man was caught in an unfortunate case of geofencing. As part of a burglary investigation, the police used location data served by Google to identify potential suspects. Being an avid cyclist, Zachary McCoy happened to ride by the victim’s home three times at around the time of the robbery. This made him look suspicious to police, who then demanded Google to produce all details related to McCoy. Fearing that he’d be falsely charged, McCoy was eventually cleared of all wrongdoing, but only after a legal ordeal involving paying a large amount for a lawyer. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Huawei Mate 30 Pro set to debut in Canada without Google apps Cisco leadership undergoes another shuffle involving Amy Chang and David Goeckeler About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada