https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-ibm-picks-slack-samsung-unpacked-robotic-workforce-stops-growing/427216
Hashtag Trending - IBM picks Slack, Samsung Unpacked, robotic workforce stops growing | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – IBM picks Slack, Samsung Unpacked, robotic workforce stops growing Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: February 12th, 2020 IBM selects Slack over Teams as its official communications platform, Samsung Unpacked yields a few surprises, and Robots loosen their grip on the American workforce. IBM has officially gone with Slack over Teams for its chat communications needs, according to Business Insider. This also means Slack is getting roughly 350,000 additional customers. While some are calling it a big win for Slack over rival Microsoft Teams, it’s worth knowing that IBM has been experimenting with Slack for some time now, and according to an SEC filing from Slack, IBM has been one of the company’s biggest customers. Twitter is buzzing about all the new toys that were unveiled at Samsung’s Unpacked event in San Francisco yesterday. First, Samsung showed its commitment to foldable smartphones with the 6.7-inch Galaxy Z Flip. Unlike the Galaxy Fold released last year, the new Flip closes vertically, which cuts its height by half for easy transport. Also announced was the full Galaxy S20 series smartphones. The Galaxy S20 Ultra, the biggest of three sizes, has a dazzling 108MP camera and 10 times optical zoom plus 10 times digital zoom– the math works out to be a crazy100 times combined zoom. All S20s are powered by Qualcomm’s new Snapdragon 865 processor with 5G baked in. The Galaxy Z Flip will arrive on Feb. 14th for US$1,380, while the Galaxy S20s will land on March 6th starting at US$1,000. And lastly, LinkedIn is talking about how American companies added fewer robots last year than in 2018. Reuters reports that roughly 23,750 robots were shipped in the U.S. in 2019, while the figure also dropped in Mexico and stalled in Canada. The slowdown came as manufacturing suffered from trade tensions and weaker global demand. One bright spot for robots: automakers, which accelerated their orders to invest in new automotive technology. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Ceridian says it plans to create 2,000 jobs in Canada over five years Cyber Security Today - Another PayPal scam, Estee Lauder leaves database open and Canadian banks get tough on customers About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada