https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/torontos-collision-conference-goes-online-due-to-coronavirus/428219
Collision conference in Toronto goes online due to coronavirus | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Collision from Home. Photo from Collision. Digital Transformation Emerging Tech Toronto’s Collision conference goes online due to coronavirus Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: March 6th, 2020 Collision 2020, the 30,000-person tech event has been turned into a virtual-only conference due to a growing number of coronavirus cases in Toronto and around the world. The event is now being called Collision from Home and will still take place from June 22 to 25, Collision announced in a blog post today. The global tech industry has been greatly disrupted by the COVID-19 outbreak as several conferences and events stand cancelled. “We are confident we have all the necessary tools and technology to effectively execute Collision from Home and will later announce the exact structure and timings of the conference,” Eoghan Dhillon from Collision told IT World Canada. Collision says attendees can connect and chat with each other through the Collision from Home app. The details of the app will also come later. People who have bought a ticket to attend can request a full refund from today or up to 30 days after attending the virtual conference from home, by applying here. Alternatively, they can get full transfers of their tickets to Collision 2021, which is scheduled to be held from June 21 to 24, 2021. “For now, given the evolving nature of COVID-19, we think gathering tens of thousands of people from almost every country in the world in one place this June would be irresponsible. Toronto has not suffered a significant COVID-19 outbreak, and at Collision we want to ensure that remains the case,” the blog read. Collision from Home can be joined by clicking here. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Emerging Tech collision, coronavirus, COVID-19, online, virtual appliance Canadian expert says Honeywell's quantum computer could be 'remarkable' Xerox acquires Digitex Canada About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Insulating your business from COVID-19 impacts TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Telus says it’s providing free high-speed internet to low-income families for 60 days in response to COVID-29 Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada