https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-the-latest-news-on-covid-19-scams-and-how-ge-was-victimized-when-a-supplier-was-hacked/428922
Cyber Security Today – The latest news on COVID-19 scams, and how GE was victimized when a supplier was hacked | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – The latest news on COVID-19 scams, and how GE was victimized when a supplier was hacked Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: March 25th, 2020 The latest news on COVID-19 scams, and how GE was victimized when a supplier was hacked. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Wednesday March 25th. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanada.com. To hear the podcast click on the arrow below: Canada and the U.S. are working with security companies and Internet providers to stop fraudsters from taking advantage of COVID-19 fears. The head of the Canadian Centre for Cyber Security says it is working to take down fake coronavirus sites. And over the weekend the U.S. Justice department got an order closing a website selling what it claimed was a virus vaccine. Social media sites like Twitter and Facebook are also trying to take down fake posts. Still, criminals keep finding new ways to exploit people’s worries. One way is by sending phishing messages about alleged information or products on COVID-19 with malicious links in an email. Security vendor Kaspersky has found attackers using another trick: They infect a smartphone with something unrelated to the virus, probably through a link. But this malware triggers a process that makes a web page pop up claiming to be a Coronavirus Finder. For a small fee payable by credit card it will show people nearby you who are infected with the virus. Of course, the scam is to get your credit card number. A commentary yesterday by a researcher at a security firm called Sophos paints a picture of how criminals work. Their email spam campaigns will shift when a new or sensational topic is popular. So, early in the year one group was trying to lure people with email with a subject line about shipping and delivery notices, which were fake. When COVID-19 came on the scene, the topic of the email switched to “health advice.” But the text of the message itself still is about invoices and deliveries, with the same infected attachment. Even the most innocuous mention of something by a politician or a celebrity about coronavirus can be used in a new email campaign to try to sell you something. So, be suspicious of any text or email messages about COVID-19 with attachments or links. I report on a lot of organizations that suffer data breaches. But sometimes a company that an organization partners with — a supplier — is the way their data gets hacked. For example, a few years ago the Target retail chain was hacked through the computer network of the company that looked after its heating and air conditioning systems. The latest example is General Electric, a huge international company that makes and finances airliner engines, medical imaging systems and more. GE wasn’t hacked. Instead it was Canon Business Process Services, which processes benefits documents of tens of thousands of GE employees. According to a notice filed in California, early last month an email account at Canon was compromised, letting the attacker copy documents that had been uploaded by current and former staff. That information included names, drivers licences, passports, birth certificates, marriage certificates, tax forms, social security numbers, bank account numbers and more. In other words, everything needed to impersonate people. Here’s the lesson: Hackers don’t have to break into databases to access sensitive data. They can get a lot just by reading email. So company managers need to remember that email login security in every organization is vital. As I repeat many times, companies have to add two-factor authentication to as many applications as possible. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security COVID-19, cyber security today, podcasts COVID-19: Provincial health hotlines and telehealth options COVID-19: Toronto mayor sparks debate on possible use of cellphone data for infection detection About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Insulating your business from COVID-19 impacts TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada