https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/leveraging-technology-to-manage-healthcare-at-home/418479
Leveraging technology to manage healthcare at home | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Leveraging technology to manage healthcare at home Suzanne Robicheau @itworldca Published: May 28th, 2019 In the same week that national newspapers decried a crisis in healthcare, quieter news spelled hope for those concerned with improving the quality of life for Canada’s rising number of seniors. A program led by Toronto Rehabilitation Institute will use a platform created by tech pioneer SmartONE Solutions Inc. to develop and launch assistive technologies that help manage healthcare at home. Funding for the aptly named PATH (Program to Accelerate Technologies for Homecare) will support a three-phase collaboration that begins by extending the SmartONE solution already installed at University of Toronto to three other universities in Canada. Phase two will see the development of products that contribute to the growing portfolio of SmartONE buildings and allow residents the opportunity to try new technologies and participate in their development. Technologies that prove successful will then be tested at the commercialization level to verify their value. Ted Maulucci For Ted Maulucci, Co-Founder and President of SmartONE Solutions Inc., it’s a dream come true. “I have spent a significant amount of time looking for ways to bring academia and business together to commercialize top Canadian research,” he says. “This program is an opportunity to leverage the brightest machine learning and artificial intelligence experts to create viable products that will improve lives and help solve the challenges of an aging demographic.” Dr. Geoff Fernie, Creaghan Family Chair in Prevention and Healthcare Technologies, Department of Surgery, University of Toronto and Toronto Rehabilitation Institute, is pleased to see The HomeLab at Toronto Rehabilitation Institute play a key role in SmartONE’s initiative to develop, integrate and implement assistive technologies to help manage healthcare at home. “Our hospitals are overcrowded and we would all prefer to have our healthcare delivered at home using technologies that can help us diagnose and manage chronic diseases,” he says. “The use of single instruments alone to detect healthcare problems often leads to too many false alarms, and frustration. We need a way to connect various instruments together so that artificial intelligence can be applied to get the right message about our home patient reliably to the right care provider at the right time.” As a member of the University Health Network, The HomeLab is positioned well for involvement in the research, integration and implementation of multiple assistive care technologies. It also benefits from the support of AGE-WELL National Centre of Excellence, a pan-Canadian network that brings together researchers, older adults, caregivers, partner organizations and future leaders to accelerate the delivery of technology-based solutions to facilitate aging in place. “We think of home-focused smart technologies that can open doors, play music, and adjust the temperature, but the reality is that advanced analytics and machine learning hold the key to staying connected and aging in the comfort of your own home,” says Maulucci. “With a shortage of people and resources to meet the demands of an aging population, technologies that can monitor your vital signs as you sit on the sofa are no longer an interesting option. They are now an absolute necessity.” Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation healthcare, Medical, smart technology, SmartONE Intel 10nm Ice Lake 10th-Gen mobile processors feature overview Government investments in AI research doesn't lead to strong adoption, says Accenture's managing director of AI About Suzanne Robicheau Suzanne Robicheau is a communications specialist based in Wolfville, Nova Scotia, where working remotely continues to fuel her passion for new mobile technologies -- especially on snowy days. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Azure NetApp files become HIPAA compliant Maple launches free online screening and consultation solution in response to COVID-19 Ottawa Hospital announces partnership to democratize its data throughout the organization Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada