https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-nov-2-2018-fifa-breached-again-hack-o-lantern-facebook-approves-fake-ads/411322
Cyber Security Today: Nov. 2, 2018 – FIFA breached again; Hack-o-lantern; Facebook approves fake ads | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today: Nov. 2, 2018 – FIFA breached again; Hack-o-lantern; Facebook approves fake ads Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: November 2nd, 2018 A FIFA data breach is about to make headlines, how to hack a pumpkin, and Facebook’s new system to prevent fake ads is easily fooled. FIFA says it’s been hacked again. It revealed on Tuesday that it was hacked earlier this year. The world’s largest soccer governing body didn’t reveal what information was leaked. But we will likely get some idea today, as European media plans to publish stories based on the leaked internal documents. The last time FIFA suffered a data breach, it was very embarrassing. Some players were revealed to have failed drug tests, yet went unpunished. There were even criminal prosecutions related to the leaks, targeting top players and coaches for tax evasion. It’s all the result of cyber criminals succeeding in their phishing attempts targeting FIFA. This organization should be making a point to train its staff on how to identify malicious emails, and to avoid clicking on unknown links or file attachments. A new Github project contains the recipe for “Pumpkin Pi.” No, not the kind you eat. As Boing Boing explains Yale cyber security lecturers built a Jackolantern using a Raspberry Pi computer and invited their students to hack it. This pumpkin features red and yellow LEDs to simulate candlelight. The students were challenged to turn a green light. By using a tool called “hydra” to brute force the password, they succeeded in gaining access. Maybe next Halloween, you could download the source code and give this exercise a try yourself. It’s election season in the U.S. and Facebook has been promising more transparency around political advertising. That includes telling users who is paying for the ads they see. But Business Insider reports that tool is easily fooled. The publication was able to run ads under the name “Cambridge Analytica,” even though that was banned from Facebook. Vice also says it fooled Facebook’s tool. It was approved to buy ads for U.S. vice-president Mike Pence, the terrorist group ISIS, and 100 different U.S. senators. Facebook has responded by saying that its approach to removing fake ads is both proactive and reactive. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, Facebook, FIFA, podcasts, raspberry pi Accenture appoints Jeffrey Russell as Accenture Canada president Hashtag Trending - Google staff stage walkout; WWW inventor speaks out; Facebook still losing European users About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada