https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-amazon-bans-price-gougers-twitters-one-day-tweet-hpe-and-amd-builds-a-supercomputer-together/428133
Hashtag Trending – Amazon bans price gougers; Twitter's one-day tweet; HPE and AMD build a supercomputer together | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Amazon bans price gougers; Twitter’s one-day tweet; HPE and AMD build a supercomputer together Tom Li @itworldca Published: March 5th, 2020 Amazon is trying its best to ban unscrupulous listings that capitalize on the coronavirus outbreak, Twitter is testing tweets that only lasts a day, and HP and AMD are working together to build the world’s fastest supercomputer. Thank you for tuning into Hashtag Trending, it’s Thursday, March 5th, and I’m your host, Alex Coop. Amazon is continuing to curb unscrupulous sellers on its web store by removing price gougers and fake products. According to ABC News and trending on Reddit, Amazon has removed tens of thousands of sellers who inflated products due to demand, as well as over one million products that have false health claims. After the outbreak, prices of household sanitary products like masks and hand sanitizers surged to incredible prices. Wired reported that in one instance, the cost of face masks rose to five times what it was before. Many other sellers falsely claimed that their products can the coronavirus, and some even sold counterfeit masks. Needless to say, they’re all against Amazon’s selling policies. Twitter is testing tweets that only last 24 hours. Trending on Bing, the new feature will be called fleets and will initially be localized in Brazil. Because they’re transient, fleets won’t be re-tweetable or have a like counter. People can still respond to the tweet, but only the original poster would be able to see them. These safeguards mean that they’re less authoritative than a regular tweet. This feature is still in its infancy, so don’t expect them to come to us anytime soon. Trending on Google, HP Enterprise and AMD are working together to create the world’s most powerful supercomputer. Named El Capitan, the new supercomputer will be used to model nuclear tests. El Capitan will use AMD’s unreleased Genoa CPU and four AMD GPUs for AI acceleration. The project would be completed in 2023, and once it does, AMD says El Capitan will be able to perform two exaflops, or two exa floating-point operations per second. In its press release, AMD claims that El Capitan would be faster than today’s top 200 supercomputers combined. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Alex Coop, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Cyber Security Today - Fraud Awareness Month, cruise line data breaches and ransomware attacks turning into data breaches A new Google Cloud Platform region to come to Toronto About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada