https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/top-10-iot-vulnerabilities-of-2018/413433
Top 10 IoT vulnerabilities of 2018 | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Top 10 IoT vulnerabilities of 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: December 31st, 2018 Attention developers of Internet of Things devices: The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) has updated its 2018 Top 10 IoT vulnerabilities list. If you’re a creator or manufacturer of IoT devices, these are the potential traps that have to be fixed before a product is released. The list comes as a colourful chart that can be posted. And if you’re a buyer of IoT products these are the vulnerabilities you should be looking for before putting down cash. The primary theme for the list is simplicity, says OWASP. “Rather than having separate lists for risks vs. threats vs. vulnerabilities—or for developers vs. enterprises vs. consumers—the project team elected to have a single, unified list that captures the top things to avoid when dealing with IoT Security. “The team recognized that there are now dozens of organizations releasing elaborate guidance on IoT Security—all of which are designed for slightly different audiences and industry verticals. We thought the most useful resource we could create is a single list that addresses the highest priority issues for manufacturers, enterprises, and consumers at the same time.” 1-Weak, Guessable, or Hardcoded Passwords Use of easily brute-forced, publicly available, or unchangeable credentials, including backdoors in firmware or client software that grants unauthorized access to deployed systems. 2-Insecure Network Services Unneeded or insecure network services running on the device itself, especially those exposed to the internet, that compromise the confidentiality, integrity/authenticity, or availability of information or allow unauthorized remote control… 3-Insecure Ecosystem Interfaces Insecure web, backend API, cloud, or mobile interfaces in the ecosystem outside of the device that allows compromise of the device or its related components. Common issues include a lack of authentication/authorization, lacking or weak encryption, and a lack of input and output filtering. 4-Lack of Secure Update Mechanism Lack of ability to securely update the device. This includes lack of firmware validation on device, lack of secure delivery (un-encrypted in transit), lack of anti-rollback mechanisms, and lack of notifications of security changes due to updates. 5-Use of Insecure or Outdated Components Use of deprecated or insecure software components/libraries that could allow the device to be compromised. This includes insecure customization of operating system platforms, and the use of third-party software or hardware components from a compromised supply chain. Related Articles Patch new IoT devices fast, researchers warn, or they’ll be in a botnet For some time threat actors who create Internet of Things-based botnets have been relying on brute force attacks to take... December 12th, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Lots of vulnerabilities in IoT device Web interfaces: Study CISOs have lots on their plates but the expansion of the so-called Internet of Things will only add to their... November 25th, 2015 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC 6-Insufficient Privacy Protection User’s personal information stored on the device or in the ecosystem that is used insecurely, improperly, or without permission. 7-Insecure Data Transfer and Storage Lack of encryption or access control of sensitive data anywhere within the ecosystem, including at rest, in transit, or during processing. 8-Lack of Device Management Lack of security support on devices deployed in production, including asset management, update management, secure decommissioning, systems monitoring, and response capabilities. 9-Insecure Default Settings Devices or systems shipped with insecure default settings or lack the ability to make the system more secure by restricting operators from modifying configurations. 10-Lack of Physical Hardening Lack of physical hardening measures, allowing potential attackers to gain sensitive information that can help in a future remote attack or take local control of the device. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security IoT, postmedia, security strategies Hashtag Trending - Verified.Me launch, blockchain consolidation, federal regulation What's ahead for Sidewalk Labs development in 2019? About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada