https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/blackberry-and-canadian-girl-scouts-launch-new-cybersecurity-badge/423769
BlackBerry and Girl Guide of Canada launch new cybersecurity badge | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. From the left: Jill Zelmanovits, CEO of Girl Guides of Canada; Sarah Tatsis, VP of BlackBerry Advanced Technology Development Labs; Karen Clyne, VP of BlackBerry Communications Education Public Sector BlackBerry and Canadian Girl Guides launch new cybersecurity badge Tom Li @itworldca Published: November 7th, 2019 TORONTO — At the BlackBerry World Tour event held on Nov. 7, BlackBerry and Girl Guides of Canada launched the Digital Defenders girl guides program to increase cybersecurity interests in young girls. This new girl guides program is tailored for guides between five to 17 years old. Through it, girl guides will be able to learn the fundamentals of data travel paths, how a computer works, and common security practices. The Digital Defenders badge. Each of the eight learning programs is geared towards an age group. The younger audiences can participate in crafting exercises like making a binary bracelet. The older girls may choose to play games that expose the inner workings of malware and what happens when they manifest. The girls also get a chance to learn from BlackBerry security experts. According to Sarah Tatsis, vice-president of BlackBerry Advanced Technology Development Labs, there’s a potential for girls to tour BlackBerry offices and experience centers. Jill Zelmanovits gifting a trophy to Sarah Tatsis for their collaboration. Completing the courses earn the guides a badge. The program has no rigid requirements on which courses to take, leaving the activity selection entirely up to the participant’s interests. Jill Zelmanovits, chief executive officer of Girl Guides of Canada, said that omitting a rigid regimen removes the policing aspect of some cybersecurity education. Enforcing a curriculum could feel too much like schooling and reduce girls’ appetite for learning. The panel underscored the gender gap between men and women in the technology field, noting that girls as young as 11 could perceive gender inequality. In addition, the panelists highlighted that one-fourth of the girls don’t see a role model in their dream career. “There’s a talent shortage in cybersecurity,” said Tatsis, alluding to the three million unfilled cybersecurity roles in today’s industry. “If we can get more people–and I mean half the population is more people–interested in cybersecurity roles, then maybe [they can] hopefully come back and actually enter the workforce.” The Digital Defenders program is ready today and can be accessed online. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Education, Public Sector BlackBerry, Canada, cybersecurity, education, girl guide Hyundai Autron selects Blackberry QNX to power autonomous vehicle software Clir appoints former Bench Accounting and Hootsuite director as CTO About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity Canadian ICT spending could shrink by 5 per cent in 2020: IDC Year Zero I A Reimagination of the Future with Sophia Fairweather, One of Canada’s Brightest Young Digital Luminaries BlackBerry releases updates to SecuSUITE for Government and AtHoc Crisis Communication Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada