https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-googles-quantum-computer-solves-10000-year-problem-softbank-reveals-wework-deal-facebook-biggest-threat-to-american-democracy/423194
Hashtag Trending – Google's quantum computer; SoftBank-WeWork deal; Facebook in hot water, again | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Google’s quantum computer; SoftBank-WeWork deal; Facebook in hot water, again Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: October 24th, 2019 Google’s quantum computer solves 10,000 year problem in 4 minutes; SoftBank reveals the WeWork deal; Facebook may be biggest threat to American democracy. Quantum computing has long been an intriguing concept that many may never fully understand but is still likely to be a large part of our future. The main idea though is to create computers that can solve problems at an exponentially higher rate than today’s technology, all within a much smaller package. And now Google’s quantum computer has made a startling breakthrough, and it is trending on Google. The computer has achieved what is being called quantum supremacy, as it has solved a problem that would take a regular computer 10,000 years in just 200 seconds. After weeks of speculation regarding the fate of WeWork following the controversy of its former CEO Adam Neumann, details have finally emerged, and it is trending on LinkedIn. SoftBank, a Japanese conglomerate, who have been interested in WeWork for some time now, will be receiving an 80% stake as part of the $9.5 billion deal. Neumann will leave his position with $1.7 billion in hand and the company will be left with a valuation of $8 billion after seeing that number as high as $47 billion earlier this year. And finally, we have a story trending on Reddit. Brittany Kaiser, one of the whistleblowers in the Cambridge Analytica scandal, has come out to publicly state that she believes Facebook, not the multitude of foreign threats, are the biggest danger to American democracy. Citing Facebook’s recent decision to not censor political ads, even when they are clearly misinformation, in direct violation of the companies policies, Kaiser said that this is allowing for the weaponization of racial hatred and the use of voter suppression tactics. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Telus IoT Shop lets businesses buy IoT data without credit checks CCTX lowers fees so public sector agencies can join threat exchange About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada