https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/ginni-rometty-out-as-ibm-ceo-arvind-krishna-steps-in/426706
Ginni Rometty out as IBM CEO, Arvind Krishna steps in | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Ginni Rometty, IBM chairman, president and CEO, delivering her chairman’s address at the Mandalay Events Center in Las Vegas in 2019. Photo by Alex Coop. Cloud Leadership Software Ginni Rometty out as IBM CEO, Arvind Krishna steps in Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: January 30th, 2020 Thirty-year-old IBM veteran Arvind Krishna, who heads the company’s cloud business, will replace Ginny Rometty as chief executive officer, IBM announced today. IBM says Rometty will remain with the company as chairman of the board, and that its board of directors has selected Krishna to replace Rometty starting April 6. “Arvind is the right CEO for the next era at IBM,” said Rometty in a press release. “He is a brilliant technologist who has played a significant role in developing our key technologies such as artificial intelligence, cloud, quantum computing and blockchain. He is also a superb operational leader, able to win today while building the business of tomorrow. Arvind has grown IBM’s Cloud and Cognitive Software business and led the largest acquisition in the company’s history. Through his multiple experiences running businesses in IBM, Arvind has built an outstanding track record of bold transformations and proven business results, and is an authentic, values-driven leader. He is well-positioned to lead IBM and its clients into the cloud and cognitive era.” Also: IBM walking away from single cloud focus ‘deserves huge respect’, says Red Hat exec IBM acquires Red Hat in largest-ever software acquisition for $34 billion Additionally, James Whitehurst, IBM senior vice-president and CEO of Red Hat, was also elected by the board as IBM president, effective April 6. I’ve had the opportunity to interact with IBMers across the company over the past few months, and I have been so impressed with the talented and dedicated team we have,” said Whitehurst. “When I first joined, I said that I believe we have the opportunity to be the defining technology company of the twenty-first century. After working with our clients, IBMers and Red Hatters over the past months, I am even more convinced of that opportunity today.” IBM acquired Red Hat at the end of 2018 for $34 billion. Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly described Ginni Rometty as chief information officer. IT World apologizes for the error. Cloud, Leadership, Software Ginni Rometty, IBM, postmedia Solving common enterprise data challenges takes a collaborative approach Cyber Security Today - Huge data breach at a U.S. chain, UN servers hacked and why your personal accounts need to be protected About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada