https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hit-the-reset-button-on-sidewalk-toronto-or-face-legal-action-civil-liberties-association-tells-government/415662
Hit the reset button on Sidewalk Toronto or face legal action, civil liberties association tells government | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Sidewalk Labs Quayside community rendering. File. Public Sector Hit the reset button on Sidewalk Toronto or face legal action, civil liberties association tells government Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: March 5th, 2019 The Canadian Civil Liberties Association (CCLA), a civil society dedicated to defending Canadian rights and freedoms, has threatened legal action against Waterfront Toronto and Sidewalk Labs in a recent letter to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Ontario Premier Doug Ford, and Toronto Mayor John Tory. The reason for their letter stems from a high-tech neighborhood that Sidewalk Labs has proposed for the Quayside. In the three-page letter, the CCLA calls for a reset of the project before Waterfront Toronto – formally known as the Toronto Waterfront Revitalization Corporation – moves forward with a partner; including but not limited to Sidewalk Labs, a company backed by Google parent firm Alphabet Inc. Citing risks of surveillance capitalism on the streets of Toronto, they say that the decisions made to date have been unconstitutional and contrary to statute, common law, and administrative law. “CCLA submits that Sidewalk Toronto and the Quayside project should be reset, with your ‘creation,’ Waterfront Toronto, issuing no new Quayside RFP until all three levels of government, after adequate public consultation, have established digital data governance policies for the appropriate collection, ownership, use and residency of personal information and other data obtained from public places in any embedded sensor laden, data harvesting Smart City contemplated for Quayside,” said the letter. They claim that Waterfront Toronto has gone outside its responsibilities, given away powers to a private enterprise that they say cannot legally be given away, and have begun operating in a manner which would require government green-lighting – power that Waterfront Toronto doesn’t have. “What are the Charter risks? We believe that the Waterfront Toronto-Sidewalk Labs Framework Agreement and the Plan Development Agreement (“PDA”) contemplate a non-consensual, state-authorized mass capture of Canadians’ personal information. As such, the Charter is engaged and breached: namely, Canadians’ right to privacy under the Charter, section 2 (fundamental freedoms of assembly and association), section 7 (life, liberty and security of the person), and section 8 (unreasonable search or seizure). The PDA also violates privacy statutes applicable to Waterfront Toronto, which is not above the law.” You can read the full three-page letter here. Public Sector sidewalk labs, smart city, Waterfront Toronto Cogeco Peer 1's new owner will invest in fiber networks, says president MDR firm eSentire raises $47 million, plans to open new HQ in Waterloo About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content 5 smart city trends for 2020 Sidewalk Labs signs letter of intent to collaborate with George Brown College New deal with Sidewalk Labs a huge win, says Waterfront Toronto’s privacy consultant Ontario privacy commissioner worries about lack of data oversight in proposed Sidewalk Labs plan Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada