https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-facebook-admits-to-another-data-leak-netflilxs-war-on-password-sharing-google-voice-assistant-training/423733
Hashtagn Trending - Facebook admits to another data leak, Netflilx's war on password sharing, Google voice-assistant training | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Leadership Privacy & Security Hashtag Trending – Facebook admits to another data leak, Netflilx’s war on password sharing, Google voice-assistant training Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Published: November 7th, 2019 New logo, same Facebook, Netflix doesn’t want you to share, and a feel-good campaign to help Google Assistant better understand people with speech impairments. Facebook may have a new logo, but the social media giant hasn’t seemed to change. From Reddit, the company has admitted that dozens of third-party apps may have retained access to certain Facebook user data for months – despite the company moving to place limits on that information. Facebook says that as many as 100 app developers could have accessed information like names and profile pictures, through a programming interface for Facebook groups. The company cracked down on what information third party apps could collect from its users after the Cambridge Analytica scandal in 2018 – but the restrictions don’t seem to be working. Next from LinkedIn is an update on the ongoing “streaming war”. Video streaming companies big and small have formed an anti-piracy industry group that aims to reduce unauthorized access to content, with password security and sharing being cited as the chief issue. In the wake of new streaming platforms like Disney Plus and Apple TV hitting the market, industry leader Netflix has already declared it is examining how to curtail password sharing among family and friends. But given the immense backlash record labels generated in the Napster era if you’re old enough for that, it’s an interesting tactic to see these companies team up to go after one of the best parts of the streaming model in search for more revenue. And last but not least from Twitter is a feel-good initiative that was launched this week in Canada. We all know the struggles of being misunderstood by Siri, Alexa, and other voice assistants – but anyone with speech impediments know this better than anyone. That’s why the Canadian Down Syndrome Society started a campaign this week to help Google improve its voice-recognition technology. The program encourages people living with Down Syndrome to record phrases online as part of Project Understood to train the tech giant’s technology to better understand those with speech impairments. The society has partnered with Google for the campaign, which launched its own Project Euphonia last year to improve their voice-recognition systems for people with speech difficulties linked to diseases like ALS. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership, Privacy & Security Data, data breach, Facebook, Google, Google Assistant, hashtag trending, Netflix, podcast, security, streaming, voice assistant, voice recognition Cisco hits the upgrade button again on its collaboration portfolio Canada's former CIO joins KPMG as a partner About Mandy Kovacs Mandy is a lineup editor at CTV News. A former staffer at IT World Canada, she's now contributing as a part-time podcast host on Hashtag Trending. She is a Carleton University journalism graduate with extensive experience in the B2B market. When not writing about tech, you can find her active on Twitter following political news and sports, and preparing for her future as a cat lady. Follow Follow @MandyVKovacs on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Hashtag Trending – Gates says US botched COVID-19 response; Snopes overwhelmed; Plague Inc. flips the script Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada