https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/november-2014-in-review-a-canadian-classic-makes-a-comeback/100635
November 2014 in review: A Canadian classic makes a comeback | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Leadership Mobility Privacy & Security Wireless & IoT November 2014 in review: A Canadian classic makes a comeback Nestor E. Arellano @NestorArellano Published: December 13th, 2014 BlackBerry fans rejoiced as news broke out that they can now pre-order the company’s new Classic smart phone from wireless service provider Rogers Communications. The Canadian smart phone maker later stuck it Apple’s eye with a totally un-Canadian and ggressive strategy to lure iPhone users. BlackBerry offered people up to $600 if they will dump their Apple smart phones for the new BlackBerry Passport. Meanwhile, Chinese network equipment manufacturer Huawei Technologies is increasing its investment in Ontario in hopes that will persuade enterprises to buy its switches and routers. The company commits $210 million in new investment to create 325 new jobs over the next five years. When combined with existing research, development and operational plans, Huawei’s total investment in Ontario over the next five years will be $500 million. Business travellers get a scary warning from Kaspersky Lab about the perils of Darkhotel. No, it’s not about a dimly lit roadside lodgings but something more sinister. Ottawa approved the restructuring of Wind Mobile’s ownership. Now the question is what direction the new shareholders will point the company to. The Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) begins its hearing on whether big telecom companies are charging smaller Internet service providers (ISPs) exorbitant fees to use their networks in order to deliver high-speed Internet service to customers. The Toronto Police Service’s Web site was down following a series of denial of service attacks that hit the service as well as the Web sites for the City of Ottawa, the Ottawa police and the Supreme Court of Canada. Subway commuters in Montreal will now be able to browse the internet, listen to streamed music, watch videos and make and receive calls during throughout the tunnels and stations along the systems green line segment. The man who now leads IT strategy at Yahoo is embroiled in a scandal over alleged kickbacks from vendors in return for lucrative contracts Careers, Leadership, Mobility, Privacy & Security, Wireless & IoT BlackBerry, hackers, Huawei, IT jobs, Kaspersky, mobile devices October 2014 in review: Canadian Tire money gets a makeover December 2014 in review: An ITWC classic retires About Nestor E. Arellano Toronto-based journalist specializing in technology and business news. Blogs and tweets on the latest tech trends and gadgets. Follow Follow @NestorArellano on Twitter Join Nestor E. Arellano on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Huawei Watch GT 2 ups the ante in functionality Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone Huawei Mate 30 Pro set to debut in Canada without Google apps Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada