https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/patching-for-meltdown-spectre-make-sure-your-av-supplier-has-the-key/400515
Patching for Meltdown/Spectre: Make sure your AV supplier has the key | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Patching for Meltdown/Spectre: Make sure your AV supplier has the key Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: January 9th, 2018 The question of how fast to apply Microsoft’s January 3 patches for the Meltdown/Spectre processor vulnerability — and ones that may be issued today with the Patch Tuesday bundle — comes down to a number of factors, but perhaps the biggest is whether an organization’s anti-virus software will allow it. We’ve already written that Microsoft warned AV makers its fixes may clash with their software. But according to a blog by infosec researcher and editor Kevin Beaumont, Microsoft has made it clear that unless AV providers certify their patches are certified compatible with its updates and adds a registry key NO Windows security fixes from now on can be installed. That key, which runs every time the product starts up, certifies their software is working with the CPU fixes. The problem is some vendors are asking administrators to set the key rather than have their software do it automatically. This impacts Windows Update, Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) and System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM), he writes. Beaumont has compiled a spreadsheet of vendors that as of Monday, Jan 8 have or have not yet complied. Some require administrators to manually change the register key, while others say their fix is coming. Related Articles Intel CEO addresses Meltdown and Spectre directly at CES LAS VEGAS - On the eve of the opening of CES 2018 to the public, Intel Corp. CEO Brian Krzanich... January 9th, 2018 Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Patching Meltdown/Spectre: Take your time, or get to it fast? The country’s biggest municipal power system has wasted no time in implementing patches to the Meltdown and Spectre processor vulnerabilities.... January 8th, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC For example, in a Jan. 5 advisory Cisco Systems says that the Microsoft patch has been tested and verified for compatibility for certain versions of its AMP for Endpoints Windows Connectors running on the public AMP Cloud. However, “customers will need to manually set the required compatibility registry key detailed in Microsoft KB4056892 after verifying all third-party endpoint security software installed on the endpoint is compatible.” Only then will the Microsoft security updates install. Beaumont reminds CISOs that there are AV vendors and there are so-called next-generation endpoint solution providers who sometimes pitch themselves as supplements to anti-virus, but recently have been marketing themselves as AV replacements. Some of these vendors may require manual setting of a registry key to get Microsoft security updates from now on. Beaumont’s list of those who have products that have not been certified and do not automatically fix the registry always changes. The message is administrators have to check with AV-related security suppliers to ensure future Microsoft security patches will be installed. According to Beaumont’s list, as of the time of writing this story, providers whose products automatically apply the register change include Avast, AVG, Avira, EMSI, Eset, F-Secure, Kaspersky, Malwarebytes, Sophos and Symantec. UPDATE: This morning Microsoft temporarily pulled nine Windows security updates with certain AMD processors after getting reports of some devices with CPUs from the manufacturer becoming unbootable after installing the fixes– even if they have compatiable AV software. “Microsoft determined that some AMD chipsets do not conform to the documentation previously provided to Microsoft” for the mitigations, the company said. To prevent AMD customers from getting into an unbootable state, Microsoft has temporarily paused sending the following Windows operating system updates to devices that have impacted AMD processors: January 3, 2018—KB4056897 (Security-only update) January 9, 2018—KB4056894 (Monthly Rollup) January 3, 2018—KB4056888 (OS Build 10586.1356) January 3, 2018—KB4056892 (OS Build 16299.192) January 3, 2018—KB4056891 (OS Build 15063.850) January 3, 2018—KB4056890 (OS Build 14393.2007) January 3, 2018—KB4056898 (Security-only update) January 3, 2018—KB4056893 (OS Build 10240.17735) January 9, 2018—KB4056895 (Monthly Rollup) Microsoft said it is working with AMD to resolve this issue and resume Windows OS security updates to the affected AMD devices. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Meltdown, security strategies, spectre Hashtag Trending - Microsoft drops Bitcoin support, Apple pressured to address childhood iPhone addiction TD Bank acquires enterprise AI firm Layer 6 About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada