https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/botnet-takes-advantage-of-weak-passwords-poorly-patched-systems-report/421987
Botnet takes advantage of weak passwords, poorly-patched systems: report | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Botnet takes advantage of weak passwords, poorly-patched systems: report Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: September 19th, 2019 There are money-saving advantages to running computers with older operating systems that aren’t carefully patched. But it may come at a price: being infected with malware that makes machines part of a global botnet for harvesting credentials and spreading cryptomining software. That’s the takeaway from a report this week by security vendor Guardicore into what some researchers are calling the Smominru botnet. Guardicore estimates in August alone August, Smominru infected 90,000 machines around the world, with an infection rate of 4,700 machines per day. After breaking into one of about 20 attack servers behind the botnet, Guardicore concluded the attack compromises Windows machines using a stolen exploit apparently created by the U.S. National Security Agency called EternalBlue, as well as by brute-forcing several Windows services with weak passwords. Then it spreads laterally, stealing victim credentials, installs a Trojan module and a cryptominer and propagates inside the network. The EternalBlue exploit works on older versions of Windows such as Win7 and XP on desktops, and WinServer 2003, 2008 and 2012. Microsoft released patches for the EternalBlue vulnerability in March 2017. However, unpatched — or poorly-patched — computers and servers continue to be victimized. Not surprisingly, says Guardicore, Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 are the most infected operating systems, representing 85 percent of all infections. These are Windows versions for which there is an operational EternalBlue exploit available on the internet. Other victim operating systems include Windows Server 2012, Windows XP and Windows Server 2003. These are either systems which have been out of support for many years, or about to be end of life. “Among other things, we found that many machines were reinfected even after removing Smominru. This suggests that these systems remain unpatched, and therefore vulnerable to this botnet or other similar attackers. Since patching is often complicated in large data centers, it is highly important to use additional security controls, such as applying network segmentation and minimizing the number of internet-facing servers,” the report says. The compromised attack server allowed Guardicore to see some of the infected machines. (The company has tried to notifiy victims where they could be identified). Among the things it gleaned is that infected machines are primarily small servers, with 1-4 CPU cores. However, more than 200 victim machines had more than 8 cores. One such machine was running on a 32-core server. To the report authors this suggests that while many companies spend money on expensive hardware, they aren’t taking basic security measures, such as patching their running operating system. The report takes a detailed look at the botnet’s attack flow, which includes downloading a worm (u.exe / ups.exe) for spreading the malware laterally, a Trojan (upsupx.exe) for command and control, screenshot capturing information stealing and installing a Monero cryptominer, and an MBR rootkit (max.exe / ok.exe). In its current iteration, Smominru downloads and runs almost twenty distinct scripts and binary payloads. Guardicore believes most of the attack servers are hosted by ISPs in the U.S., with some hosted in Malaysia and Bulgaria. “Many hosting companies proactively detect and block malicious activity coming from their networks,” says the report, which goes on to question why some U.S. providers can’t do the same. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security botnet, postmedia, security strategies Scotiabank source code, credentials found open on GitHub: news report TD launches self-serve block features for credit cards About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada