https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/bill-mcdermott-steps-down-as-ceo-of-sap/422791
Bill McDermott steps down as CEO of SAP | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. SAP CEO Bill McDermott addresses media at the 28th annual SapphireNow event in Orlando Leadership Software Bill McDermott steps down as CEO of SAP Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: October 11th, 2019 After 10 years as the CEO of SAP SE, Bill McDermott has decided not to renew his contract and will be relinquishing his position. McDermott will be replaced by SAP executive boards members Jennifer Morgan and Christian Klein in a co-chief executive officer structure – as per the company’s long term succession plan – while McDermott will remain with the company in an advisory capacity until the end of the year. “Every CEO dreams of being able to transition a company to its next generation from a position of significant strength,” said McDermott. “When you look at where we were and where we are, I simply could not be prouder of what this company has achieved over the past decade. I am thankful for the opportunity to lead one of the world’s finest companies. Now is the moment for everyone to begin an exciting new chapter, and I am confident that Jennifer and Christian will do an outstanding job. I look forward to supporting them as they finish 2019 and lay the foundation for 2020 and beyond. To every customer, partner, shareholder and colleague who invested their trust in SAP, I can only relay my heartfelt gratitude and enduring respect.” McDermott joined the company in 2002 as the head of its North American division before taking over worldwide customer operations and joining the executive board in 2008 and soon after being appointed chief executive officer. “SAP would not be what it is today without Bill McDermott,” said Professor Hasso Plattner, chairman of the Supervisory Board of SAP SE. “Bill made invaluable contributions to this company and he was a main driver of SAP’s transition to the cloud, which will fuel our growth for many years to come. We thank him for everything he has done for SAP. We also congratulate Jennifer and Christian for this opportunity to build on the strong foundation we have for the future of SAP. Bill and I made the decision over a year ago to expand Jennifer and Christian’s roles as part of a long-term process to develop them as our next generation of leaders. We are confident in their vision and capabilities as we take SAP to its next phase of growth and innovation.” Both Morgan and Klein have been with SAP for over 15 years (Morgan started with the company in 2004 while Klein started as a student 20 years ago) and both currently serve on the executive board. Klein most recently served as the company’s chief operating officer and previously held positions such as SAP SuccessFactors chief financial officer and as SAP chief controlling officer. Morgan most recently served as president of the Cloud Business Group, overseeing Qualtrics, SAP SuccessFactors, SAP Ariba, SAP Fieldglass, SAP Customer Experience and SAP Concur. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership, Software SAP Cyber Security Today - Hospital email hacked, and more on two-factor authentication New study says Canadian SMBs incur a potential productivity loss of $2 billion using older technology About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Fixing ‘unmanageable’ Phoenix system will take roughly a year, says SAP SAP selected by government to test a replacement for Phoenix pay system IT can be a partner to improve employee experience for the better Azure shows no sign of slowing down, according to Microsoft’s Q1 2020 earnings call Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada