https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/liferay-announces-cloud-offerings-as-a-platform-as-a-service/409845
Liferay announces cloud offerings as a Platform-as-a-Service | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Digital Transformation Infrastructure Liferay announces cloud offerings as a Platform-as-a-Service IT World Canada Staff @itworldca Published: October 9th, 2018 New Orleans, La. – Liferay, a California-based digital experience software provider, announced at its Liferay Symposium North America a new Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS), Liferay DXP Cloud. The new service will be an enterprise solution that will simplify the deployment, management, and scaling of Liferay DXP, a separate press release said on Oct. 9. Liferay makes software that helps companies create digital experiences on the web, mobile and connected devices. Its clients include Airbus, Allianz, Autozone, Bosch, Domino’s, and T-Mobile, among others. The latest offering will lessen the “need for IT to maintain and manage their own infrastructures so they can focus on delivering new services for the business,” Liferay states in a press release. During the opening ceremony keynote speech on Oct. 8, Bryan Cheung, Liferay’s CEO, said the goal for Liferay this year is to make a commitment to bring an offering that will enable Liferay to “get out of the way of the transformation of your company…[and in turn] working with businesses to deliver better services.” During the keynote address on Oct. 9, Fernando Areias, business director at Liferay and CEO at Liferay DXP Cloud, elaborated to a crowd of over 400 on the offering saying it was important to “bridge the gap between what we can deliver as a business and what our customers expect.” Areias said the team developed the product to help clients manage any challenges that come their way when they’re trying to deliver a digital experience platform to customers. “Let’s say you’re trying to create a customer report…you want to meet their expectations so you choose to use Liferay DXP, but there are some challenges. The first is infrastructure, what is the system you’re going to use? How is it going to be architecturally safe? “What about monitoring your performance? With DXP Cloud we want you to think about those things…with DXP Cloud we want to manage all of that for you…we want to achieve greater time to market and we want to empower your teams to know what’s going on with your platform. And they can see that in real-time fashion if something unexpected is going on as well,” Areias said. Some of the key features of this new offering will allow clients to “automatically address unexpected traffic flows in order to avoid service disruptions;” it will have better and stronger security; detect common server problems as they occur; help monitor performance metrics; “understand the health and compute requirements” of sites overtime; have better backup and recovery of data services; and allow better management of applications. No release date yet for Canada Eduardo Lundgren, engineering director at Liferay and CTO at Liferay DXP Cloud, said during an interview that the service, for now, will only be available in the west coast in the U.S., and will eventually be rolled out to Europe and South America. He added that after those rollouts, the service will then be available in Canada, but wasn’t able to provide a timeline. He noted that the service was created to make deployments easier and faster, and noted that the service can easily be added onto existing licenses. “This is a solution that we are giving to our customers [so they can] get ready to publish their projects faster on the cloud. We have been collecting experiences from the global services team from the past 10 years, we compiled that [research] together as a solution for our clients just so they can buy it as an addition to their licenses,” Lundgren said. By using the new software on top of Liferay’s solutions, the press release said, IT departments will now be able to “reduce costs by leveraging deployment best practices and simplifying infrastructure management.” Along with DXP Cloud, Liferay announced a suite of services this past year including Liferay DXP 7.1 a stronger and better platform to create engaging digital experiences; Liferay Analytics, an application to be able to measure and optimize those experiences; and Liferay Commerce, a B2B e-commerce solution. Liferay also introduced Liferay University, a suite of video tutorials for anyone who wants to learn more about how to use Liferay’s platform. Cloud, Digital Transformation, Infrastructure cloud, digital experiencce, dxp cloud, Liferay Google bug exposed user data, company held back notifying people Five things I'm thinking about after a retreat with 30 CIOs Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content OpenText Enfuse 2019: The Carbonite acquisition, new apps, and updates Clir appoints former Bench Accounting and Hootsuite director as CTO Amazon ‘surprised’ about Pentagon contract snub Trend Micro acquires Cloud Conformity Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada