https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/new-categories-new-opportunities-for-cios-at-the-canadian-cio-of-the-year-awards/427381
New categories, new opportunities for CIOs at the Canadian CIO of the Year Awards | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Leadership New categories, new opportunities for Canadian CIOs at 2020 CIO of the Year Awards Staff @itworldca Published: February 18th, 2020 There are several reasons why Canadian technology leaders should consider throwing their name in the hat for this year’s CIO of the Year Awards. In addition to an easier submission process, applicants have two new categories to choose from: the Not-for-Profit and Next Generation Leader awards. The Not-For-Profit award is for tech leaders with registered Canadian charities and associations, while the Next Generation Leader category is presented to a tech leader who demonstrates outstanding talent as a future leader in the tech sector. Click here to make a nomination Have you or someone you know shaken things up when it comes to best management practices and innovation? Perhaps they’ve introduced emerging technology in a meaningful way across an organization? The Next-Gen Leader category is calling for those nominations. Our private and public sector categories are, of course, still available. The event is presented by ITWC in partnership with the CIO Association of Canada. All nominations are now open, with an April 6 deadline. After that, an independent panel of judges will determine three finalists in each category. Following that step, the finalists will be approached and asked to provide two letters of recommendation attesting to the nominee’s accomplishments. The nominator cannot write the recommendation letter. But the CIO of the Year Awards are about more than just hardware. As usual, the event provides participants with an opportunity to be recognized in front of their peers at an evening celebration on July 15 in Toronto’s Entertainment District and finalists get to spend time with IT World Canada‘s editorial team to talk about the biggest issues facing today’s CIOs during a live Town Hall discussion. The CIO of the Year Awards will be presented at a special reception following the 2020 ITWC Digital Transformation Conference and Awards The four winners will be profiled in ITWC publications and inducted into the national CIO Hall of Fame as well. Humza Teherany, chief technology and digital officer for Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment and President of the CIO Association of Canada, is this year’s host. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership Canadian cio, CanadianCIO of the Year Hashtag Trending - Facebook and taxes, Cyborg locusts, where’s the love Snapchat? Information belonging to 69,000 Phoenix payees sent to wrong department Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content CIO priorities reflect changing times, according to new report How Canada can end the false sense of digital identity security ‘Being a cloud-enabled government is a very positive thing for BC’: Insightful chat with CJ Ritchie, CIO at the Government of British Columbia Canada’s CIO Strategy Council publishes national AI standards Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada