https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-tesla-being-sabotaged-uber-tests-new-cheaper-fare-feature-autoplay-video-ads-coming-to-facebook-messenger/406475
Tesla being sabotaged, Uber tests new cheaper fare feature, autoplay video ads coming to Facebook Messenger | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Leadership Managed Services & Outsourcing Hashtag Trending – Tesla being sabotaged, Uber tests new cheaper fare feature, autoplay video ads coming to Facebook Messenger Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Published: June 20th, 2018 Tesla is apparently being sabotaged, Uber is testing a new feature that lets passengers wait for cheaper fares, and Facebook is putting autoplay video ads in your private messages. First up from LinkedIn is news that Tesla may be the victim of internal sabotage. Founder and CEO Elon Musk sent an email to all employees this weekend explaining that a person within the company had conducted “quite extensive and damaging sabotage,” according to a CNBC report. Sabotaging acts included changing operating system code for an internal product and releasing data externally. Musk’s email was followed by another about a fire that halted production of Tesla’s at its California factory. This news comes as the company is in the midst of sweeping layoffs and a drive for profitability. Next from LinkedIn again, Uber is apparently testing out giving passengers the option to wait for a cheaper ride. An Uber employee in California tweeted a screenshot of the new feature, which showed that an immediate ride at 4:56 p.m. local time would cost $10.18 but waiting until 5 p.m. would only be $8.15. An Uber spokeswoman told Quartz by email that the option to wait for a cheaper ride is being tested in San Francisco and Los Angeles but could expand elsewhere if all goes well. And last but not least from Reddit, Facebook rules the online marketing world, and it’s looking to keep it that way with a new opportunity. The social media giant is now selling ads that would see autoplay video ads appear in user’s inboxes right next to messages from friends and family. Facebook started selling ads inside Messenger about 18 months ago, but this is the first time they will be videos and autoplay without a user’s approval. The company says its top priority is user experience and will monitor this new marketing ploy to see if it turns people off of the app. Careers, Leadership, Managed Services & Outsourcing Ads, Elon Musk, Facebook, hashtag trending, marketing, Messenger, podcasts, ridesharing, Tesla, Uber, video Glassdoor reveals Canada's top 25 CEOs of 2018 - and eight are in tech Access management pros have to do better, says Microsoft executive About Mandy Kovacs Mandy is a lineup editor at CTV News. A former staffer at IT World Canada, she's now contributing as a part-time podcast host on Hashtag Trending. She is a Carleton University journalism graduate with extensive experience in the B2B market. When not writing about tech, you can find her active on Twitter following political news and sports, and preparing for her future as a cat lady. Follow Follow @MandyVKovacs on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada