https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-bank-of-canada-says-no-to-crypto-wal-mart-reddit-ceo-calls-tiktok-parasitic/427859
Hashtag Trending - Bank of Canada says no to crypto, Wal-Mart+, Reddit CEO calls TikTok 'parasitic' | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Bank of Canada says no to crypto, Wal-Mart+, Reddit CEO calls TikTok ‘parasitic’ Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: February 28th, 2020 The Bank of Canada says no thank you to crypocurrencies, Walmart is working on its own version of Amazon Prime, and the CEO of Reddit has some harsh words for TikTok. The Bank of Canada says it will not launch a digital currency for at least several years. The bank says there was “not a compelling case” to do so after extensive research. The bank will, however, continue to prioritize digital currency research, keeping possibilities open for e-money down the road, according to reports that everyone on LinkedIn is now talking about. The bank also says it’s developing a “contingency plan” for a cash-like central bank digital currency. In other crypto news, earlier this week, Shopify announced it will join the Facebook-backed cryptocurrency Libra Association. Amazon Prime has forever changed traditional retail, but Walmart is about to fight back. Wal-Mart’s on-demand delivery service could launch as early as next month, with plans “to add more perks that Amazon can’t easily match”, according to Recode. The membership program will be called Walmart+. Amazon now accounts for nearly 40 per cent of all online retail sales in the US, according to eMarketer, and Prime is a huge reason why. Walmart is a distant No. 2 with only a little more than 5 per cent of the US e-commerce market. TikTok is the hot new thing on the block, but CEO of Reddit had some harsh words for the app, calling it “fundamentally parasitic” at an event this week. Steve Huffman said “Because I look at that app as so fundamentally parasitic, that it’s always listening, the fingerprinting technology they use is truly terrifying, and I could not bring myself to install an app like that on my phone.” The comments have spread rapidly on Reddit, where a lot of users were quick to point out that Reddit is not much better. Reddit is badmouthing a competitor but “blatantly also abuses the permission system and sells our data,” one commentor read. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Group to create Canadian cyber standards for electricity sector IoT devices Cyber Security Today - Security conference offers advice, healthcare industry warning and macro phishing alert About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada