https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/salesforce-upgrades-with-voice-everywhere-and-a-single-source-of-truth/424204
Salesforce upgrades with voice everywhere and a single source of truth | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Marketing Software Salesforce upgrades with voice everywhere and a single source of truth Lynn Greiner @lynngr Published: November 22nd, 2019 At its annual user conference this week, Dreamforce, Salesforce unveiled what it calls the Holy Grail of CRM: Customer 360 Truth, a set of data and identity services that lets companies link information from multiple systems with their CRM to create a single source of truth (SSoT) about each contact. Customer 360 Truth connects data from across sales, service, marketing, commerce and more, across Salesforce apps and other systems, to create a single, universal Salesforce ID for each customer. All of a customer’s previous interactions and shared preferences are brought together to create a complete view. The goal is to allow companies to better serve customers and even predict their needs, whether addressing a customer service problem, creating a personalized marketing journey, predicting the best sales opportunities or surfacing product recommendations. Customer 360 Truth includes several components: Customer 360 Data Manager, which lets administrators establish trusted connections between data sources. Salesforce Identity for Customers, which provides single sign-on and two-factor authentication. Customer 360 Audiences, which builds unified customer profiles across data sources, then creates customer segments and delivers AI-driven insights about the customer. Privacy and Data Governance, which helps customers classify all data in Salesforce so they can comply with regulatory requirements. All of these capabilities are generally available now, except Customer 360 Audience, which is expected to become available in the first half of 2020. Salesforce’s recent acquisition, Mulesoft, provides a platform to let organizations build application product interfaces (APIs) that connect any application, data, or device to Customer 360. The company also announced that it is adding new voice capabilities to its Customer 360 platform. Building on last year’s addition of Einstein Voice Assistant that allowed sales reps to perform routine CRM tasks by talking to Salesforce, Einstein Voice Skills will give admins and developers the ability to create custom voice apps across the Salesforce Customer 360 Platform. Salesforce plans to expand the capabilities of Einstein Voice Assistant for any role or industry as well. Two key new services were showcased: Service Cloud Voice, which integrates telephony inside Service Cloud, and can also integrate with voice to text transcription services. This lets Einstein AI provide agents with relevant information while they’re on calls. Einstein Call Coaching in Sales Cloud uses natural language processing to identify keywords in sales call transcripts, allowing managers to detect trends and best practices and turn them into personalized coaching. Einstein Voice Assistant and Einstein Voice Skills will enter beta testing in February 2020 and are expected to become generally available in 2021. Service Cloud Voice will be piloted in February 2020 and is expected to be generally available in June 2020. Einstein Call Coaching is currently in pilot and is expected to be generally available in June 2020. Cloud, Marketing, Software Dreamforce, Salesforce Canada, U.S. must work together to fight cyber threats, conference told Alberta privacy czar surprised by healthcare sector data breaches About Lynn Greiner Lynn Greiner has been interpreting tech for businesses for over 20 years and has worked in the industry as well as writing about it, giving her a unique perspective into the issues companies face. She has both IT credentials and a business degree. Follow Follow @lynngr on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content State of Salesforce report says customer satisfaction and retention primary goals for AI investments ‘We promise we will work with everybody’ says Salesforce CEO The Hidden Peril – Are boards and CEOs asking the right incident preparedness questions? Salesforce finally acquires Tableau for $15.7B Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada