https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-data-privacy-day-tips-windows-10-hogs-hard-drive-samsung-ditches-plastic-packaging/414587
Hashtag Trending – Data Privacy Day tips; Windows 10 hogs hard drive; Samsung ditches plastic packaging | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Emerging Tech Opinion Hashtag Trending – Data Privacy Day tips; Windows 10 hogs hard drive; Samsung ditches plastic packaging Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: January 29th, 2019 How to lie and cheat your way to better online privacy; Windows 10 is going to hog more of your disk space, and Samsung makes a commitment to do something good for the environment. Trending on Twitter, yesterday was Data Privacy Day. Organized by the National Cyber Security Alliance, the day was all about boosting awareness of best practices for online privacy. In that spirit, I have a few tips that I’m calling “How to lie and cheat your way to better online privacy:” If you’re signing into a public WiFi hotspot, never share your real information. Just enter a fake email address and most times you’ll just get connected. And pay attention to whether you can just skip this screen altogether. Create a disposable email account that you use to sign up to online promotions or contests. That way you can still verify that you received the email when you have to, but you won’t reveal your real name or email. Lie about your birthday. Just because an online service asks you for your birthdate doesn’t mean you have to give it to them. Just make up any other date. Having your real date of birth could be used by fraudsters to steal your identity. Windows 10 to take over 7GB of your hard drive so it can always update automatically from technology Trending on Reddit, Microsoft now requires that you reserve 7 GB of disk space dedicated to Windows 10. This is so critical operating system functions have access to disk space and to help keep Windows up to date. Having reserved disk space means that users can’t fill up their hard drives to the point that there’s no space left to download and install new updates. The feature is rolling out to everyone later this year, but if you’re a Windows Insider then you can get access now. Trending on Google, Samsung is getting rid of its plastic packaging. The Korean electronics manufacturer says it will use only sustainable materials starting in the first half of this year. By next year, it will be using only paper packaging materials. An internal task force has been given the job of coming up with ways of avoiding plastic packaging. Even your phone charger cables will look different, with no more glossy exterior or plastic protection films coating the exterior. Samsung says it’s committed to the change, even if it means higher costs. Careers, Emerging Tech, Opinion data privacy, hashtag trending, podcasts, Samsung, windows 10 'Privacy Day' explores how to yield benefits from smart cities without privacy pains KPMG's new digital transformation leader for Canada plans to hire 1,000 new workers About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada