https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/university-of-ottawa-to-open-cybersecurity-research-hub/424802
University of Ottawa to open cybersecurity research hub | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. University of Ottawa campus Privacy & Security University of Ottawa to open cybersecurity research hub Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: December 4th, 2019 The University of Ottawa will soon open what it calls a hub for research in cybersecurity and cyber safety, with IBM Canada as the first of what is expected to be several industry partners. The two sides said this week that the hub — it doesn’t have a physical space yet on campus — will officially open in the spring. It will in part take advantage of the university’s 11-year partnership with IBM’s Canada Lab, which has helped turn out a number of patents and research papers including some relating to cybersecurity, in addition to assisting students to graduate with advanced degrees. In an interview Guy Levesque, the university’s dean of research said his institution will get two benefits. “One is making sure we’re producing cyber-literate students coming out of engineering, law and management [courses],” he said. This is to meet the demand from the private and public sectors are asking of all universities, he added. The University of Ottawa can offer bilingual graduates, he indicated, in demand particularly in the capitol. “The other is helping to bring partners together so we can tackle the daunting challenges around technology issues around cyber [including] security, privacy and ethics,” he said. Helping to create real-world solutions is also part of the goal. Related story: UNew Brunswick opens cyber research centre with NRC Steve Astorino, an IBM Canada vice-president and director of its Canada Lab, said “skill-building is going to be one of the key exercises.” The hub will address “how do we bring expertise and technology together between academia and IBM on innovative cybersecurity solutions and preventive measures.” Related story: UWaterloo opens cyber research centre with NRC Marcellus Mindel, head of the IBM Canada Lab’s centre for advanced studies, said the University of Ottawa was selected in part because of the work his company does with professor Guy-Vincent Jourdan and his research team. IBM will know who has completed masters and Ph.D.’s in cyber-related work, he explained, and it will contribute an unspecified amount of technology, research support and access to special data sets. Levesque emphasized that the hub will focus on cyber safety of users as well as cybersecurity. The problem not only is technical, he said, but also “human-centred,” Several university departments are interested in being part of the hub, he said, including the faculties of engineering, electrical engineering and computer science, math, law and the school of management. Until the hub opens, Levesque said, “we ‘re going to spend the next few months bringing together all the researchers and define priority initiatives for 2020.” It’s also going to need a name, he added. Related story: Ryerson, Rogers Communications open cyber research centre Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security IBM, security strategies, University of Ottawa AWS details steps to digital transformation, highlights machine learning Hashtag Trending - Googlers upset about founders departing; Amazon employees at risk; iPhone 11 Pro stealing location data About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada