https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/metro-toronto-convention-centre-to-install-weapon-detection-tech-that-uses-machine-learning/422274
Metro Toronto Convention Centre to install weapon detection tech that uses machine learning | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Source: benedek | Getty Images Artificial Intelligence Emerging Tech Metro Toronto Convention Centre to install weapon detection tech that uses machine learning Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: September 27th, 2019 Weapons detection technology that uses machine learning is set to be tested at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre (MTCC) later this year. The technology, which is called Hexwave, was developed by the MIT Lincoln Library and exclusively licensed to Vancouver-based Liberty Defense. It uses 3D imaging and AI to assess and detect threats as groups of people pass its sensors. “There’s really two major elements to the system. It’s the radio frequency that can transmit any part of it and then there’s the artificial intelligence side,” said Bill Riker, chief executive officer for Liberty Defense, in an interview with IT World Canada earlier this year when the same tech was rolled out at the Rogers Arena. “The Hexwave uses a low power radio frequency signal to illuminate the detection space. And then from that energy, which it emits into the space and captures reflection, it captures the signals to create 3D images in real-time. These 3D images are then analyzed by machine learning to go ahead and make a determination of whether or not it’s a weapon or if it’s just an anomaly or if it’s a standard item like a cellphone or set of keys.” Concept drawing provided by Liberty Defense. Liberty Defense has seven other agreements with facilities across the world for beta testing, including Vancouver’s Rogers Arena. But out of all of these agreements, MTCC will be the first convention centre to be brought into the fold, which Riker said is an essential facility type for testing. “Convention centres are an essential part of a nations critical infrastructure because they serve as hubs for business events, entertainment, transportation, and community pride. They are also a key source of innovation on how people can interact at a mass level, so it is especially key to help provide a sense of security and safety in an ever-changing threat environment,” said Riker in a press release. Vince Quattrociocchi, the vice-president of operations at the MTCC, said this is a great opportunity for their organization to preview technology that may be a part of their security operations moving forward. “MTCC has a strong reputation for being on the cutting-edge of services and facility operations, which includes a proactive security philosophy that stays ahead of emerging threats. We are pleased to participate in testing for Hexwave along with other world-class venues. As we explore ideas for continuous operational improvements, we consistently look at technologies that can both enhance efficiency and security while delivering a positive customer experience,” said Quattrociocchi in a press release. Artificial Intelligence, Emerging Tech AI, artificial intelligence, Liberty Defense, Metro Toronto Convention Centre Ontario privacy commissioner worries about lack of data oversight in proposed Sidewalk Labs plan TrackTik CEO becomes the latest CEO at The Council of Canadian Innovators About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content The bad guys are arming themselves with AI, but so are we, says Darktrace’s country manager for Canada 10 women advancing AI in Canada Gartner says nearly half of privacy compliance technology to rely on AI by 2023 Inflection Point I An interview with AltaML’s managing director about AI’s role in shaping Calgary’s digital future Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada