https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/407338-2/407338
Google, Microsoft, Facebook, and Twitter commit to open source data portability | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Privacy & Security Google, Microsoft, Facebook, and Twitter commit to open source data portability Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: July 20th, 2018 Several of the world’s biggest tech brands announced plans to allow users to transfer their data from one platform to another today, as Google, Microsoft, Twitter, and Facebook announced they are collaborating on the Data Transfer Project. In a blog post on Google’s Open Source, the search giant describes the announcement as a commitment to data portability. The goal would be to allow users to transfer their data without needing to download it and reupload it to a different service. Similar to how Google users can use the Download Your Data tool to directly transfer data to Dropbox, Box, Microsoft OneDrive, and Google Drive, this functionality would extend to include many more users and web services. The move may be motivated in part by the recent Global Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), as explained in another recent Google blog post about its efforts around the E.U. mandate. “While we’ve enabled people to download data from our services for many years, the GDPR encourages companies to enable direct service-to-service data transfers where feasible, for example from Google Photos to another photo service. To support that aim, we’ve recently initiated the Data Transfer Project on GitHub, providing early-stage open source code that will, in time, be of use to any developer wanting to offer seamless transfer of data from one service directly into an alternative (or vice versa),” the blog post states. The tech players involved will have to develop tools that act as intermediaries between their various proprietary APIs, converting it to a data format that can be used elsewhere. Google says this will be good for users. “Consumers will benefit from improved flexibility and control over their data. They will be able to import their information into any participating service that offers compelling features—even brand new ones that could rely on powerful, cloud-based infrastructure rather than the consumers’ potentially limited bandwidth and capability to transfer files. Services will benefit as well, as they will be able to compete for users that can move their data more easily.” The open source nature of the project may help tech brands assuage fears that user data is being used for marketing purposes or other, more nefarious means. With the code open to anyone to inspect, the system has a higher level of transparency than most, since anyone can see what’s happening with user data. Of course, after the data is transferred to a service, it may reside on a proprietary platform where it’s unclear how it’s being treated. Google is calling for the developer community to help extend the platform to support more data types, service providers and hosting solutions. “The Data Transfer Project’s open source code can be found at datatransferproject.dev and you can learn more about Google’s approach to portability in our paper, where we describe our history with this topic and the values and principles that motivated us to invest in the Data Transfer Project. Our prototype already supports data transfer for several product verticals including: photos, mail, contacts, calendar, and tasks. These are enabled by existing, publicly available APIs from Google, Microsoft, Twitter, Flickr, Instagram, Remember the Milk, and Smugmug.” Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Privacy & Security Facebook, GDPR, Google, Microsoft, postmediaold, social networks, twitter Intel breaks Guinness World Record celebrating 50th anniversary Turning big data into actionable insights About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada