https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/telus-iot-shop-lets-businesses-buy-iot-data-without-credit-checks/423190
Telus IoT Shop lets businesses buy IoT data without credit checks | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Mobility Telus IoT Shop lets businesses buy IoT data without credit checks Tom Li @itworldca Published: October 23rd, 2019 Telus recently launched an IoT Shop for small enterprises and developers to easily purchase IoT connectivity for product development and equipment testing. Traditional IoT connectivity needs businesses to meet a volume requirement. In order to qualify, the buyer must pass through a number of requirements including credit checks and other background checks. It makes it difficult for smaller businesses to test and deploy a small number of equipment. In a stop-by shopping fashion, the Telus IoT Shop does not require a Telus business account and is available for everyone to purchase IoT data. Based on Telus’ 4G LTE and LTE-M network, users can purchase between 100MB to 40GB of shared data across multiple SIM cards. The plans renew on a 30-day cycle or when the data pool depletes. Data cost ranges between $30 a month to $775 a month. “For Canadian businesses innovating in the IoT space, direct access to reliable cellular connectivity is crucial,” said Michael Cihra, vice-president of Telus IoT, in a prepared statement last month. “The IoT shop was built based on customer feedback to ensure that the user experience, management tools, and services meet the demands of the innovators that are shaping Canada’s growing IoT system.” Up to 100 SIM cards can be purchased in bulk, with the first three being free with the subscription. A list of certified equipment can be found on Telus’ website. Currently, the service is only available in Canada, with plans to roll it out in the U.S. at a later date. The new service complement Telus’ IoT services, which include vehicle fleet tracking, energy management, and other services. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Mobility application developers, IoT, mobility, Small Business, Telus Ransomware now stealing data, warns Ontario cybercop Hashtag Trending - Google’s quantum computer; SoftBank-WeWork deal; Facebook in hot water, again About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Telus says it’s providing free high-speed internet to low-income families for 60 days in response to COVID-29 Telus to donate $10 million to address public healthcare crisis Bell, Rogers, Telus and others temporarily remove internet data caps Koodo admits February data breach, data already being sold on dark web Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada