https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/macos-high-sierrra-5-under-the-hood-new-features/396954
macOS High Sierra: 5 under the hood new features | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Mobility Wireless & IoT macOS High Sierra: 5 under the hood new features Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: September 25th, 2017 Apple Inc. released a free upgrade for its desktop operating system on Monday with macOS High Sierra. The update brings some functional and cosmetic changes to many of the core apps in macOS such as Photos and Safari, but much of the real changes are coming under the hood. While not immediately evident to end users, these updates will be appreciated by developers that are pushing the boundaries on applications with machine learning and high-end graphics; or system administrators looking for more mileage on their storage and CPU assets. Remember to perform a full backup on your computer before you start the upgrade process for macOS High Sierra. Apple recommends this and it’s just general good practice when doing any OS upgrade. Apple File System Apple has never been as file-centric an operating system as Windows, instead modelling its paradigm around applications first. But of course, it still has a file system and that’s getting a whole new architecture with this update. Apple File System is a new 64-bit architecture that Apple says is optimized for flash storage (solid state discs). Apple is promising that data will be protected from sudden power outages and system crashes with new data integrity features, and that copying files and folders will be much faster. High-Efficiency Video Coding Apple is also updating the High-Efficiency Video Coding version from H.264 to H.265 with this update. The industry standard for video compression and streaming playback is improved by required 40 per cent less storage for the same quality of video files, which also means that 4K video will now stream more effectively over lower-bandwidth connections. Mac users with hardware accelerated graphics will see the best benefits. Other industry players including Adobe, GoPro, and Blackmagic Design are also adopting the new standard. Metal 2 With Metal 2, Apple is trying to coax more out of your graphics processing unit. It adds new capabilities like machine learning, virtual reality support, and external GPU support for entertainment and professional applications. The Metal 2 API is used by game developers from major studios to improve the performance of their games. Core ML Along with Metal, Apple is introducing Core ML, which enables deep learning capabilities for app developers. Core ML is one of the machine learning frameworks that Apple offers to its developers, allowing them to access machine learning capabilities without have to be an expert in that specific area of programming. The applications coded with these frameworks operate on the device, not requiring any data be exchanged with a cloud service. Apple says this reduces server cost, data cost, and ensures high performance and 24/7 availability. Firmware check A new utility called eficheck will automatically run on the new macOS once per week. Its job is to compare the firmware on the client computer to Apple’s database of known good firmware versions. If it checks out, nothing happens, but if it detects a probem, the user will be invited to send a report to Apple. This will allow Apple to proactively determine if malware is affecting firmware configurations of any sort. Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility, Wireless & IoT Apple, developers, machine learning, macos How Canada's 73-year-old radio and TV audience data service is adopting analytics Hashtag Trending - Skype for Business replaced, macOS gets free update with High Sierra About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Is my iPhone snooping on my conversations? Apple’s new MacBook Air and iPad Pro bring surprsing upgrades Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Only a select few are allowed to build apps related to COVID-19, says Apple Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada