https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/industry-government-academics-form-group-to-help-solve-canadas-cyber-talent-shortage/418091
Industry, government, academics form group to help solve Canada's cyber talent shortage | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Leadership Privacy & Security Industry, government, academics form group to help solve Canada’s cyber talent shortage Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: May 16th, 2019 Another piece of the Information Technology Association of Canada’s strategy for increasing the number of cyber security professionals has fallen into place. ITAC said Wednesday a group of industry, governments and academics have formed the Cybersecurity Talent Alliance to craft a plan for cyber security education and workforce development. “The purpose is to energize and promote a collaborate network for cyber security education, training and workforce development by co-ordinating with governments, academia and industry partners to build on existing programs and facilitate change innovation,” Gina van Dalen, executive director of ITAC’s talent and business technical forum, said in an interview. Many organizations work separately on cyber education solutions, she noted. ITAC believes putting together a wide range of groups — from the federal government’s Canadian Centre for Cyber Security to Ryerson University’s Catalyst Centre for startups — will help. “Canada’s need for qualified cyber security workers is growing exponentially, and our schools are struggling to keep up with the rapidly evolving field,” ITAC CEO Angela Mondou said in a statement. “There’s stiff competition for talent, and businesses need to adapt and broaden their recruitment efforts. This Alliance will help to address both talent development and employer needs, establishing a Canadian talent pipeline that will help drive a successful economy.” The benefit of youth digital literacy is the awakening of young talented Canadians to future career opportunities in cyber security, added Stephen Lund, CEO of CyberNB, a New Brunswick agency and an alliance member. “As the size of the digital economy grows and more devices become connected, the number of new positions to be created to support digital security increases as well.” Creation of the alliance is part of ITAC’s plan, partly funded by a three-year $1.9 million federal grant that will look at the development of a skills framework for cybersecurity, as well as associated certification and program accreditation standards, and workforce development tools and outreach activities to assist both skilled tech-related professionals and employers. However, according to Gina van Dalen, executive director of ITAC’s talent and business technical forum, the alliance won’t have its first formal meeting until late October when ITAC stages a workforce development conference. ITAC, which represents the country’s major IT companies, announced in February a project to accelerate security learning, skills development and career development. That will include a framework based around the U.S. National Inititative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE). Related Articles ITAC to tackle cyber security skills shortage through tools website It seems CISOs have been complaining about the cyber skills shortage ever since the first hacker was found. But finding... February 12th, 2019 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC In addition to the federal cyber security centre, CyberNB and the Ryerson incubator, initial members of the alliance include — Canadian Nuclear Laboratories; —Cyber Quebec’s Cybersecurity Technology Transfer Center. CyberQuebec is a cyber security agency of colleges in the province; —-the Smart Cybersecurity Network (SERENE-RISC), a cross-Canada network of cyber security researchers; —Digital Nova Scotia, an industry association for the province’s IT sector; –the University of Waterloo’s Institute for Quantum Computing; –Quantum-Safe Canada, which encourages the public and private sectors to prepare for quantum computers; –Public Safety Canada and Economic and Social Development Canada. –and the Canadian Chamber of Commerce. Related Download Sponsor: Kronos The Reinvention of HR: Managing HCM Trends and the Evolving Workforce A Human Capital Management Trend Report. Learn More Leadership, Privacy & Security IT skills shortage, security strategies Seventeen countries sign promise to fight spread of online extremist content Hashtag Trending - Facebook beefs up Live restrictions; OnePlus 7 Pro review; WannaCry 2 years later About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada