https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/rsa-conference-2019-russia-china-still-pose-threats-says-fbi-chief/415674
RSA Conference 2019: Russia, China still pose threats, says FBI chief | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. A crowd gathers for a keynote during the 2019 RSA Conference. File photo by Howard Solomon Privacy & Security RSA Conference 2019: Russia, China still pose threats, says FBI chief Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: March 6th, 2019 SAN FRANCISCO – In case there was any doubt, FBI director Christopher Wray has made it clear Russia and China are considered among his agency’s top sources of cyber threats, along with Iran and North Korea. During a keynote chat at the official opening at the annual RSA Conference here, Wray was asked if Russia still poses a threat to the U.S. election process and to the country in general. “Yes,” Wray bluntly replied. This of course comes after the Justice Department indicted 12 Russian military intelligence officials last summer for allegedly conspiring to interfere in the 2016 U.S. election Related Articles How to attempt to influence an election: Start with a spear-phishing campaign Canadians worried about the possibility of a foreign government trying to secretly use the Internet to influence politics here could... July 16th, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Wray added the FBI didn’t see a “material impact” on the election infrastructure during the 2018 mid-term elections from a foreign adversary in last election. But, he added, “what has continued virtually unabated and just intensified during the election cycle is this malign foreign influence campaign, especially in social media but lots of other techniques, to sew divisiveness and discord, to pit Americans against each other, to undermine our faith in democracy. He expects that will continue up to the 2020 U.S. election. As for China, “I would argue for too long this country has underfocussed on the counter-intelligence threat, which has a cyber dimention, that China poses. There is nothing like it … Of all the things that surprised me when I came back [from the private sector] was the breadth, the depth and the scale of the Chinese counter-intelligence threat … We have economic espionage investigations in all 56 [FBI] field offices that almost all lead back to China.” Related Articles Canada backs U.S., hackers ‘likely’ linked to China compromised service providers here Using careful language, Canada has backed U.S .allegations that for about 12 years two Chinese citizens hacked managed Internet service... December 21st, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Last fall, he noted, the U.S. indicted two people for either working for the Chinese government or being associated with its Ministry of State Security in stealing data from companies in a dozen countries in part by hacking service providers. At the time Canada said it is “almost certain that actors likely associated with the People’s Republic of China (PRC) Ministry of State Security (MSS) are responsible for the compromise of several managed service providers [in Canada] beginning as early as 2016.” Asked if allegations against China are part of a trade dispute, Wray replied, “not at all. This is not about trade or diplomacy, but rule of law … We’re going to follow the facts independently where ever they go no matter who likes it. And that means when we find somebody who has committed federal crimes against Americans or American businesses we’re going after them, and I don’t care what some foreign government has to say about it.” His statements come as Western governments are increasingly worried about the possibility of foreign interference either directly in election processes – like tampering with voting machines or electoral lists — or by trying to cause social unrest through misinformation on social media. On the other hand a Canadian editor recently argued there is more misinformation spread on Canadian social networks from citizens than outsiders. Related Articles Add fighting cyber crime to ICANN’s work, urges Canadian Internet leader In recent years the one of the Internet's leading oversight bodies, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN),... February 28th, 2019 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Wray said the FBI leads a cross-government task force preparing to fight any foreign influence in the next election. The Trudeau government has formed a similar group. Both governments say they are working closely with social media firms to help them combat abuse of their platforms. Related Articles Privacy gap for Canadian political parties; Ottawa unveils election cyber security strategy With the country nine months away from a federal election, the privacy structure around Canadian political parties and how the... January 31st, 2019 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Canada watching for cyber threats to 2019 election, says government Canada is "working hard to ensure that the 2019 elections are protected and defended against cyber threats and foreign interference,"... August 3rd, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Wray was also asked the inevitable question about the FBI stance on the tech sector helping to get at encrypted communications used by adversaries. The agency, like the RCMP, is increasingly anxious about the number of devices and software solutions made to ensure their data is scrambled. Although some U.S. police chiefs have called on tech companies to install backdoors so law enforcement and intelligence agencies can – with a judicial warrant – crack encryption, Wray took a softer tone. “Not a week goes by where I don’t encounter across all of our programs some significant, sometimes insurmountable impediment (from adversaries) hiding with encrypted devices or encrypted messaging platforms,” he began. “It’s a public safely issue.” “I get a little frustrated when people suggest we’re trying to weaken encryption. To be clear, those are not our words. we’re not trying to weaken encryption, we’re not seeking backdoors any more than the well-intentioned folks on the other side are trying to weaken public safety. But it is an issue that is getting worse and worse all the time. “It can’t be sustainable for there to be an entirely unfettered space utterly beyond lawful access for criminals, terrorists and spies to hide … In private conversations with experts in cryptography I’m hearing there are solutions if people willing to put their heads together.” Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security China, FBI, Russia, security strategies RSA Conference 2019 keynotes: Protect trust, the bad in AI and embrace OT Cyber Security Today: March 6, 2019 - Women in cyber security; WooCommerce woops; Android TV photos flaw About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada