https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-zooming-contacts-slacks-down-tesla-to-stream-videos/420456
Hashtag Trending – Zooming contacts; Slack's down; Tesla to stream videos | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Zooming contacts; Slack’s down; Tesla to stream videos Tom Li @itworldca Published: July 30th, 2019 Scientists create contact lenses that zoom when you blink, a temporary Slack outage sends workers into a panic, Tesla cars will soon play videos. That’s all the tech news that’s trending today. It’s Tuesday, July 30th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Reddit, scientists have created contact lenses that can be controlled by small eye movements. The lens responds to electro-oculographic signals–the electric potential differences in the eye–and translates them to a range of effects. One function includes being able to zoom in when double blinking. The scientists hope to eventually integrate this technology into a prosthetic eye or a contact lens camera. Trending on Twitter, a temporary Slack outage sent many office workers into disarray, many of whom then flocked to Twitter to post memes and jokes. Remote workers were especially devastated and had to resort to rapid-firing emails and text messages to get through the rough patch. Some even suggested AOL, paper mail, pigeons, and video game chats as clever alternatives. Trying to communicate with our coworkers while slack is down like… #SlackDown pic.twitter.com/56lgudjLHw — E! News (@enews) July 29, 2019 When #slack is down and you’re remote today. pic.twitter.com/Jt6JMv69rG — Paulina Gallo ✨ (@paulpaultweets) July 29, 2019 Lastly, trending on LinkedIn, Tesla will soon be delivering YouTube and Netflix content right to the vehicle’s displays. Most Tesla cars have large displays embedded within the car, which makes for the perfect source for some on-the-road entertainment. Tesla CEO Elon Musk says that videos will only play when the car is parked, or “when full self-driving is approved by regulators”. Hopefully, that day comes sooner than later. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Six million Canadians impacted by Capital One data breach We welcome scrutiny, says Huawei Canada's new VP of government affairs About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada