https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/samsung-reveals-newest-tablet-the-galaxy-tab-s4/407723
Samsung reveals newest tablet: the Galaxy Tab S4 | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Wireless & IoT Samsung reveals newest tablet: the Galaxy Tab S4 Meagan Simpson @megesimpson Published: August 2nd, 2018 Samsung has introduced its newest tablet, the Galaxy Tab S4, calling it the tablet for “people who want to do more on the go.” In a Wednesday release, Samsung touted the device as a tablet with the capabilities of a PC. In at least one sense, that’s objectively true: The Tab S4 is Samsung’s first tablet to be equipped with the company’s DeX software, which allows users to switch between Android and desktop interfaces. With DeX, according to the release, a user can open multiple desktop-style windows directly on the Tab, and even drag, drop and resize different app’s windows. Samsung calls it a tablet that “helps you work smarter by keeping you operating at the highest levels.” Samsung Galaxy Tab S4 with keyboard Courtesy: Samsung Courtesy: Samsung The tablet also boasts longer battery life (7,300mAH) than its predecessors, with Samsung promising the device will last up to 16 hours, a 10.5 inch AMOLED display with a 16:10 screen ratio, what the company is calling a ‘refined’ S Pen and four AKG-branded speakers. According to its website, the Tab S4 is available for pre-order starting August 3. Make sure to stay tuned to All Hands on Tech for an upcoming review of this device. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Wireless & IoT Android, galaxy tab s4, Samsung, Samsung DeX, Tablets Listen to Nasdaq's new market-opening bell designed by Sonos Hashtag Trending: Car makers exposed; Should Amazon replace libraries?; is thinner better? About Meagan Simpson Meagan Simpson is a Jr. staff writer for IT World Canada. A graduate of Carleton University’s journalism program, she loves sports, travelling, reading and photography, and when not covering tech news she can be found cuddled up on the couch with her cat and a good book. Follow Follow @megesimpson on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone Coronavirus ‘decimated’ device manufacturing in February, says IDC Samsung 16GB LPDDR5 DRAM enters mass production Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada