https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/privacy-expert-calls-toronto-polices-use-of-clearview-ai-appalling/427346
Privacy expert calls Toronto Police's use of Clearview AI 'appalling' | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Public Sector Privacy expert calls Toronto police’s use of Clearview AI ‘appalling’ Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: February 13th, 2020 While he deserves some praise for halting the use of a controversial image search tool, Ann Cavoukian, the head of Global Privacy & Security by Design, and the former Information and Privacy Commissioner of Ontario, says Toronto police Chief Mark Saunders has got a serious problem on his hands. “He’s got to get his house in order,” she told IT World Canada. “How can other officers and various departments use something like this without his authorization?” Cavoukian, referring to Clearview AI, a U.S.technology company that supplies law enforcement agencies with powerful image recognition software, was surprised to find out that some Toronto Police Service members had been using Clearview AI last October. The The Globe and Mail first reported the news about TPS and its use of Clearview AI Thursday, on the heels of extensive coverage from the New York Times about the software’s use in the U.S. “The Chief directed that its use be halted immediately upon his awareness, and the order to cease using the product was given on February 5, 2020,” police spokesperson Meaghan Gray said in an email to Global News. A TPS department head, who did not wish to be identified, told IT World Canada shortly after the news broke Thursday that they had no idea the technology was used internally. “I am aware of Clearview AI, but I had no idea where it was used here or for how long,” they said. Last May, TPS confirmed reports that it was using facial recognition technology. The Toronto Star reported that Staff Insp. Stephen Harris of the Forensic Identification Services had told the publication that there were no plans to expand the TPS’s use of facial recognition “beyond comparisons to its pre-existing mugshot database.” Clearview AI’s website says that they’ve “helped law enforcement track down hundreds of at-large criminals, including pedophiles, terrorists and sex traffickers. It is also used to help exonerate the innocent and identify the victims of crimes, including child sex abuse and financial fraud.” Cavoukian said she has doubts about those claims. “They don’t mention the false positives,” she said. Clare Garvie, a researcher at Georgetown University’s Center on Privacy and Technology, told the New York Times that no data exists that proves Clearview AI is accurate. “The larger the database, the larger the risk of misidentification because of the doppelgänger effect. They’re talking about a massive database of random people they’ve found on the internet,” she was quoted saying. On its website, it says, “Clearview’s image search technology has been independently tested for accuracy and evaluated for legal compliance by nationally recognized authorities. It has achieved the highest standards of performance on every level.” No additional detail is provided. One of the pull quotes on Clearview’s website says it’s from a “Detective Constable in the Sex Crimes Unit” from a Canadian law enforcement agency. “Clearview is hands-down the best thing that has happened to victim identification in the last 10 years. Within a week and a half of using Clearview, [we] made eight identifications of either victims or offenders through the use of this new tool,” the pull quote reads. Requests for access can be filed through Clearview AI’s website in a matter of minutes. Cavoukian said it’s sometimes normal for large organizations to lose track of innovations that are rapidly being tested, but it’s scarce to read about cases where the top of the food chain is entirely unaware of what’s happening below. “Clearview AI, they scrape billions of images from social media and other platforms without any permission and no notice … it’s appalling.” At the very top of its website, Clearview AI says it only scrapes “public information only” and that its tool is for “search, not surveillance”. However, Facebook and other social media sites prohibit people from scraping users’ images, meaning Clearview is violating the sites’ terms of service. Even the company’s founder, Mr. Ton-That, an Australian techie and onetime model, according to The Times, admits this. “A lot of people are doing it,” Mr. Ton-That was quoted. “Facebook knows.” Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security, Public Sector clearview AI, postmedia, toronto police service Telus plans for Huawei gear in access part of its 5G network Hashtag Trending - The ‘Tech Clash’ is coming, Macs and viruses, tech startups flood Kenya About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada