https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cisco-partner-completely-managed-launches-iiot-network-discovery-assessment-platform/415798
Cisco partner Completely Managed launches IIoT network discovery & assessment platform | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Privacy & Security Cisco partner Completely Managed launches IIoT network discovery & assessment platform Lynn Greiner @lynngr Published: March 11th, 2019 There are dozens of tools for inventorying and monitoring corporate networks, but industrial networks aren’t as well served. Last week, Newmarket, Ontario-based Completely Managed took a big step to remedy that situation when it unveiled its industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) network discovery and assessment platform, LANAware, bridging the gap between IT (information technology) and OT (operational technology). Partners Cisco Canada, Gerrie Electric, JMP Solutions, and Tech Data Canada joined in the celebration and the ceremonial ribbon-cutting by Newmarket mayor John Taylor at Completely Managed’s offices. Newmarket mayor John Taylor cuts the ribbon assisted by Completely Managed’s VP business operations Warren Tkachuk and CEO Rod Scotland. Completely Managed founder, president and CEO Rod Scotland said, “Security is part and parcel and should be considered through the lens of every acquisition, purchase decision and network deployment. This is where LANAware focuses – it is a platform to assess and recommend. LANAware helps GERRIE Electric, ourselves, and our partners understand, assess, and then produces the documentation that helps the recommendation to be understood. The interface has been written not for IT, it is very focused on industrial applications. Our opportunity to help is in industrial; we do focus on and solve IT problems as well on an everyday basis.” LANAware consists of three pieces: a box that’s small enough to hold in one hand, a secure cloud where it aggregates the collected information and displays it to users based on their roles, and a virtualization engine. A LANAware node. Photo by Lynn Greiner) The box (or node, as Completely Managed calls it) can securely connect to up to six networks, inventorying each and collecting information about each device, including its software and firmware versions and patch status. It monitors and manages many industrial plant technologies, and fingerprints devices varying from automation and network equipment to PLCs (programmable logic controllers), allowing users to build network maps and evaluate each device’s status. Information not accessible through autodiscovery can be entered manually to round out the picture. Real-time reporting provides managers with information about the state of the network and its devices, sends alerts about issues, and provides recommendations to keep all healthy and functioning properly. Mark Collins, senior vice-president of Cisco Canada partner organization, said, “Today what Completely Managed does is very much about a bridge to possible. LANAware is going to be a huge game-changer.” Development funding was provided by the Industrial Research Assistance Program (IRAP) of the National Research Council. Warren Tkachuk, vice-president of business operations at Completely Managed, said, “We have a single purpose: to be a bench behind our partners’ brands. We want to bring value to our partner relationships; they are the ones who service the customers and take those not-so-friendly phone calls on a regular basis. Companies like JMP Solutions and GERRIE Electric are two of them that take such great care of the market, and all we do is come in and add value to all of the hard work that they do.” He also called out Cisco and Tech Data, who have helped develop a global strategy for LANAware. Added Todd Madgett, global client director supporting distribution at Cisco, “What I really like about this company is it’s got the IT and the OT space. Completely Managed is the first specialized certified IoT partner in Canada for Cisco.” LANAware is available through the Cisco Marketplace. Cloud, Privacy & Security Cisco, internet of things (IoT), mesh network, Tech Data Cyber Security Today - Citrix Systems data breach; finding talent to secure the government; car alarms gone wrong RSA Conference 2019: How to create a security awareness plan About Lynn Greiner Lynn Greiner has been interpreting tech for businesses for over 20 years and has worked in the industry as well as writing about it, giving her a unique perspective into the issues companies face. She has both IT credentials and a business degree. Follow Follow @lynngr on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cisco commits $225 million to COVID-19 response Cisco leadership undergoes another shuffle involving Amy Chang and David Goeckeler In response to COVID-19, Cisco is handing out free 90-day Webex business licenses RSA Conference: Democratize security, says Cisco official, and McAfee urges work on quantum-resistant solutions Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada