https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/murai-botnet-targets-more-enterprise-devices-report/416120
Mirai botnet targets more enterprise devices: Report | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Mirai botnet targets more enterprise devices: Report Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: March 19th, 2019 Additions to the Mirai botnet suggest those behind the automated IoT-based attack mechanism are turning more to enterprise devices, says a report from Palo Alto Networks. The company’s Unit 42 threat intelligence division said Monday that new targets of the botnet include the WePresent WiPG-1000 Wireless Presentation systems and LG’s Supersign TVs. Businesses that use these devices should ensure they are password-protected. Also new on the botnet’s list are exploits for DLink DCS-930L Network Video Cameras, DLink DIR-645 and DIR-815 home routers, the Zyxel P660HN-T routers. and a number of access points and wireless controllers from Netgear. They join earlier enterprise targets including products from SonicWall and an exploit of the Apache Struts web framework. This new Mirai variant also includes more credentials to use in brute force against devices. And in an ironic twist, the report says the malicious payload was hosted at a compromised website in Colombia belonging to an unnamed electronic security, integration and alarm monitoring company. Related Articles Chalubo botnet targets Linux systems: Report Two reports this week from security vendors emphasize the need for administrators to change default passwords on all devices in... October 24th, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Regulate IoT devices for security, says BlackBerry CSO Another senior tech industry official has joined the call for government regulation of Internet of Things devices. The call came... May 14th, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Government regulation of IoT coming, SecTor conference told Government safety regulation of the Internet of Things is coming, warns a prominent security expert, so technologists have to start... November 16th, 2017 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC “These new features afford the botnet a large attack surface,” says the report. “In particular, targeting enterprise links also grants it access to larger bandwidth, ultimately resulting in greater firepower for the botnet for DDoS attacks. “These developments underscore the importance for enterprises to be aware of the IoT devices on their network, change default passwords, ensure that devices are fully up-to-date on patches. And in the case of devices that cannot be patched, to remove those devices from the network as a last resort.” Mirai is a botnet composed of hundreds of thousands of routers, network storage devices, NVRs, and IP cameras to deliver malware and launch distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks. Some of the biggest DDoS victims have been web hosting provider OVH, DNS provider Dyn and the web site of security reporter Brian Krebs. Three Americans who created the Mirai botnet have been fined, forced to give up cryptocurrency and sentenced to five years probation. However, one of the group posted the source code so criminals have copied it to set up their own versions and continue spreading malware. Commenting on the two new device targets listed in the Palo Alto report, Lane Thames, senior security researcher at Tripwire, said the news shows the computing industry still has a long way in toughening up secure development practices. The two vulnerabilities affecting WePresent and the Supersign TV “are trivial to exploit, but, more concerning, is that they are trivial to prevent. These two vulnerabilities are a classic case of a web application not sanitizing user input (input that a user/attacker can control when interacting with the web application). These two vulnerabilities are very basic and easily addressed with modern development frameworks. Further, organizations developing web-based products should have mechanisms in place to catch such low hanging “fruit” as this during their development and QA processes. “Don’t get me wrong,” he added, “developing secure software is hard, and there is no such thing as perfect security, but, we should have graduated beyond this level of trivialness by now.” (This story has been changed from the original to correct the spelling of Mirai) Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security botnet, security strategies Beware of rise of formjacking, says Symantec HP Reinvent announcements: New HP Probook, Envy, and Reverb VR headset About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada