https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/raspberry-4-released-now-supports-4gb-ram-and-dual-4k-displays/419350
Raspberry 4 released, now supports 4GB RAM and dual 4K displays | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Raspberry Pi 4. All photos from Raspberry Pi blog. Emerging Tech Mobility Raspberry 4 released, now supports 4GB RAM and dual 4K displays Tom Li @itworldca Published: June 24th, 2019 Raspberry Pi, the tiny programmable computer adored by DIYers, developers, and creative tinkerers alike, has been upgraded to version 4. Visually, Raspberry Pi 4 is similar to the previous generations. This was done intentionally to preserve the familiarity of the device to existing customers. But to accommodate a host of new features, a few components had to be updated, like how the USB-C power connector had to replace the micro-USB port to support 500mA of extra current. Furthermore, the single USB-A display output had been split into two micro HDMI type-D connectors, each capable of supporting up to 4K resolution. Dual micro HDMI type-D connectors. Performance has also been bumped significantly. Raspberry Pi 4 now uses the new quad-core BCM2711 SoC, which has replaced the dated ARM Cortex-A53 processor cores with the much more powerful ARM Cortex-A72 processor cores. In a blog post, the company states that the new processor is up to three times faster than the previous generation. The board also now comes in 1GB, 2GB, or 4GB RAM configurations. Two USB 2.0 ports, two USB 3.0 ports, and an Ethernet port. The Raspberry Pi 4 is now available as standalone kits retailing between $35 USD to $50 USD. First-time buyers may also opt for the Desktop Kit which includes the board, a power supply, case, and a number of accessories for $120 USD. Raspberry Pi 4 Desktop Kit. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Mobility developer, hardware, raspberry pi Cyber Security Today - Watch out for this vacation scam Microsoft announces AI for Good funding for University of Waterloo About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Intel announces full 10th gen ‘Ice Lake’ processor launch lineup LG G8 ThinQ review: the best LG phone closes the gap How to buy the best keyboard for business Cyber Security Today: Nov. 2, 2018 – FIFA breached again; Hack-o-lantern; Facebook approves fake ads Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada