https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/rajeev-suri-to-step-down-as-president-and-ceo-of-nokia/427947
Rajeev Suri to step down as president and CEO of Nokia | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Rajeev Suri, president and CEO of Nokia. Photo from Nokia. Infrastructure Leadership Rajeev Suri to step down as president and CEO of Nokia Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: March 2nd, 2020 Rajeev Suri will be stepping down after serving as the president and chief executive officer of Nokia for more than a decade, the company announced today. Suri will leave his position on August 21, 2020, and continue to serve as an advisor to the Nokia board until January 1, 2021. Pekka Lundmark, president and CEO of Fortum – an energy company based in Finland – will proceed to the role and is expected to start on Sept. 1. Prior to Fortum, Lundmark served as president and CEO of Konecranes, a global material-handling technology company, and he held multiple executive positions at Nokia from 1990 to 2000, including vice-president of strategy and business development at Nokia Networks. He will be based in Espoo, Finland. As one of the world’s top three telecom gear vendors, Nokia has been locked in a fierce battle with Huawei and Ericsson for years but has struggled to capitalize on potential opportunities. As of February, Ericsson and Nokia had notched 81 and 68 5G contracts, respectively. Huawei has won 91 contracts. “After 25 years at Nokia, I have wanted to do something different,” Suri said in a press release. “Nokia will always be part of me, and I want to thank everyone that I have worked with over the years for helping make Nokia a better place and me a better leader. I leave the company with a belief that a return to better performance is on the horizon and with pride for what we have accomplished over time. Pekka is an excellent choice for Nokia. I look forward to working with him on a smooth transition and wish him the best success in his new role.” Suri indicated earlier to the board of directors that he was considering stepping down from his role at some point in the future. The company’s board has been working closely with Suri to develop internal candidates and identify external candidates. That process culminated today when they made the decision to move forward with Lundmark’s appointment, Nokia stated in the press release. “With the acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent behind us and the world of 5G in front of us, I am pleased that Pekka has agreed to join Nokia,” said Risto Siilasmaa, Nokia board chair, in the press release. “He has a record of leadership and shareholder value creation at large business-to-business companies; deep experience in telecommunications networks, industrial digitization, and key markets such as the United States and China; and a focus on strategic clarity, operational excellence and strong financial performance.” Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Leadership 5G, CEO, chief executive officer, Nokia, postmedia Explore all the changes in Canadian financial services security in a single day Microsoft to replace MCSA, MCSD, and MCSE with role-based certifications About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada