https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/canada-has-highest-wireless-value-among-g7-nations-u-s-study/427992
Canada has highest wireless value among G7 nations: U.S. study | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image source: Pexels Infrastructure Wireless & IoT Canada has highest wireless value among G7 nations: U.S. study Tom Li @itworldca Published: March 3rd, 2020 A new U.S. study commissioned by the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association (CTIA) said that Canada offers leading mobile propositions for consumers among G7 nations and Australia. Out of 1,554 mobile plans offered by 213 mobile operators in 36 countries, Canadian mobile plans cost 4.7 per cent lower than other G7 countries and Australia for the same quality of service. Its value proposition bested all other G7 nations. Source: U.S. Industry Association and the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association (CTIA) – A Comparison of the Mobile Wireless Value Proposition. When compared to 15 European Union countries and the U.S., Canada ranked 6th in mobile service value proposition. The model for this comparison used some estimated data for the EU countries and assumed they all share important commonalities. In its abstract, the report stated that its goal is to offer a more complete comparison between U.S. mobile services and other countries. It factored multiple variables into consideration instead of relying solely on price. “The [previous] studies’ simplistic analytical techniques assume a world where consumers are indifferent to all other competitive differentiators (i.e., monthly service allowance and quality differences) beyond price,” wrote the study abstract. “The price rankings also fail to consider the vast differences between the study countries that affect the building of networks.” In order to offer this complete picture, the new U.S. study included plan attributes, network attributes, and country attributes along with pricing, which encompassed monthly recurring charges, net of taxes, and installation fees. Pricings were gathered from consumer-facing websites of 1,554 facility-based and MVNOs. The detailed methodologies and data selection process can be found in the full report. Opensignal’s bi-annual report, published in February, concluded that Canada’s mobile performance is world-class, beaten only by South Korea. Measurements were sampled from devices in major cities including Toronto, Edmonton, Calgary, and others. OpenSignal calculated Canada’s average wireless download speeds to be between 51.2Mbps (Rogers) to 75.0 Mbps (Telus), far ahead of the 41.6Mbps average stated in the U.S. report. Its 4G availability was 2.7 to 4.2 per cent short of the 95.4 per cent global average, however. Last week, the Canadian Radio and Telecommunication Commission (CRTC) concluded a major hearing with Canadian telcos to evaluate the merits of enforcing MVNOs and the state of wireless competition. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Wireless & IoT Canada, Canadian telecommunications, cellular, CRTC, postmedia, telecommunication, wireless In response to COVID-19, Cisco is handing out free 90-day Webex business licenses Canada among most secure countries, according to Comparitech's 2020 cybersecurity rankings About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada