https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-nordvpn-hacked-alexa-and-google-home-vulnerabilities-and-update-these-antivirus-apps/423138
Cyber Security Today – NordVPN hacked, Alexa and Google Home vulnerabilities, and update these antivirus apps | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – NordVPN hacked, Alexa and Google Home vulnerabilities, and update these antivirus apps Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: October 23rd, 2019 NordVPN hacked, Alexa and Google Home vulnerabilities, and update these antivirus apps. Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Wednesday October 23rd, I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanada.com. To play the podcast click on the arrow below: People worried about the security of public Wi-Fi hotspots in restraurants, hotels, airports and the like may turn to an app called a virtual private network, or VPN, for protection. It creates an encrypted channel through which your Wi-Fi communications goes. Well, on Monday one of the biggest providers, NordVPN, admitted it was hacked. The incident took place over a year ago, in March 2018. It isn’t clear what the attacker got. The company says it doesn’t collect any user data. It told the news site TechCrunch that the particular server that was hacked didn’t have usernames or passwords. Nor, the company says, could the attacker have broken into VPN traffic on another server. Assistants like Amazon Alexa and Google Home can be fun and useful. But if they’re not monitored they can also be privacy threats. German security researchers proved this by creating apps for these smart speakers which either eavesdrop on users. Or they can be used to steal your passwords with a phony request for a password to install an update. So you’ve got to be smarter than your smart speaker. Security vendor Tripwire recommends Google Home users enable accessibility tones. With this setting a Google Home device will always play a chime to let you know it is listening and then another chime to let you know it has stopped listening. Meanwhile Amazon and Google told the news site Ars Technica that they are now carefully watching apps they approve to make sure these types of attacks can’t happen. What you post on social media may come back to bite you if criminals use things mentioned to impersonate you to a bank or utility. Wired.com has a good article on securing four of the most popular sites — Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Snapchat. For example, on Facebook you can set up a list of specific friends who can see posts. Check it out at Wired.com. If you use Avira, Avast or AVG Antivirus products make sure you’re running the latest versions. Security vendor SafeBreach says it has discovered vulnerabilities in both of these applications. Finally, for the past two days I’ve been covering the annual security conference of the Municipal Information Systems Association of Ontario. MISA represents IT workers employed by cities and towns. You’ll find my conference stories today and tomorrow on ITWorldCanada.com. And I’ll have a few highlights on Friday’s podcast. That’s it for today’s podcast. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts ServiceNow announces Bill McDermott as new CEO days after his exit from SAP Canadian expansion woes haven’t stopped OVHcloud from betting big on the Great White North About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada