https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/dells-ultrasharp-27-4k-premiercolor-monitor-now-available-in-canada/426447
Dell's UltraSharp 27 4K PremierColor Monitor now available in Canada | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Dell’s UltraSharp 27 4K PremierColor Monitor now available in Canada Tom Li @itworldca Published: January 24th, 2020 Dell’s 27-inch UltraSharp 27 4K PremierColor monitor (UP2720Q) landed in Canada on Jan. 15, 2020. Designed for professional photo and video editing, the Dell UltraSharp 27 4K supports 100 per cent of Adobe RGB, 98 per cent DCI-P3, and 80 per cent of BT2020. While the sRGB colour space is sufficient for web images, photographers and videographers have specific colour needs that are only available in wider colour gamuts. Furthermore, many high-end smartphones today also support these colour gamuts, so even web content creators can benefit from working with a more diverse colour selection. The colorimeter measures colour accuracy from the base of the display. To maintain the display’s colour accuracy over time, the UP2720Q has a colorimeter built into its bottom bezel. In a nutshell, a colorimeter corrects a display’s colour accuracy by comparing the display’s output against a known reference. At the size of a small USB thumb drive, the colorimeter swings out when it’s activated and is compatible with CalMAN colour calibration software. Dell advertised the UP2720Q to boast high contrast ratio and low dark luminance but did not state that the display is HDR certified. Up to two UP2720Q displays can be daisy-chained using a single Thunderbolt 3 cable while supplying up to 90W of power for laptops. The monitor also offers picture-in-picture (PiP) mode so it can display media in different colour spaces from different sources on the same monitor. The Dell UltraSharp 27 4K PremierColor monitor is available now for CA$2,600. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure Adobe, Dell, display, monitor Rogers' internal passwords and source code found open on GitHub For SMBs moving to the cloud, mindset and partners are key About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Dell Technologies sells RSA to Symphony Technology Group consortium for over $2 billion Intel processor constraint to continue in 2020, says HPE CES 2020: Dell introduces the XPS 13 Developer Edition laptop Dell’s foldable devices at CES 2020: Duet, Ori, and UFO Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada