https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/is-your-company-ready-for-windows-7-doomsday/408549
Preparing for Windows 7 'doomsday' | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Privacy & Security Preparing for Windows 7 ‘doomsday’ Meagan Simpson @megesimpson Published: August 31st, 2018 The countdown has started, Saturday marks only 500 days until Microsoft stops supporting the world’s most popular operating system, Windows 7 according to a new study. This could cause major security concerns for companies as Microsoft will stop providing vital security updates to the Windows 7 system by Janruary 2020, according to a study from Kollective, a content delivery company However, many corporate IT departments, 66 per cent in fact, don’t see moving away from Windows 7 as a priority, the report stated. Source: Kollective Of the 260 IT decision makers surveyed in the U.S. and U.K., 43 per cent are still running on Windows 7 with only one fifth of the companies having made the move to Windows 10. Another 6 per cent don’t even plan to make the change. Source: Kollective While 500 days may seem like a long time, Jon O’Connor, solution architect at Kollective said in the report that it took many businesses up to three years to move from XP to Windows 7 and he predicts a similar timeline for the move to Windows 10 In fact more than a quarter of companies surveyed said it needs to allow at least a month to roll out the new operating system and security updates. O’Connor suggests the best strategy is to allow the updates to roll out automatically but “our research suggests that many businesses simply don’t have the network infrastructure needed to achieve this simultaneous update.” Many will take months or years to migrate entire systems he said. The study also found that 16 per cent of companies still use even older systems like Vista and XP. With all this in mind O’Connor suggests that companies start switching operating systems to get ahead of the countdown to the Windows 7 ‘doomsday’. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Privacy & Security Microsoft Windows 10, Windows 7 How IT managers can cultivate emotional intelligence at work Cyber Security Today: Restaurants Canada offers security assessments; Microsoft’s SoC of the future; Medical devices at risk About Meagan Simpson Meagan Simpson is a Jr. staff writer for IT World Canada. A graduate of Carleton University’s journalism program, she loves sports, travelling, reading and photography, and when not covering tech news she can be found cuddled up on the couch with her cat and a good book. Follow Follow @megesimpson on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Windows 7 is dead, but 25% of large businesses in Canada are still running it on desktops, says IDC survey Social media reacts to Windows 7 end of life Hashtag Trending – Web turns 30; some scientists worried about wireless devices; Windows 7 soon to die From Windows 7 to Windows 10: A migration guide Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada