https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-how-to-discover-if-your-email-has-been-hacked/420245
Cyber Security Today – How to discover if your email has been hacked | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – How to discover if your email has been hacked Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: July 31st, 2019 How to discover if your email has been hacked Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Wednesday July 31st. I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanada.com. I’m away for a few days this week, so instead of news here are some tips on how to be safer online. Reputable companies invest a lot of money in protecting their web sites and customer information. But sometimes mistakes are made that result in data breaches. Among the information that gets stolen are usernames, passwords and corresponding email addresses. How can you know if you’ve been a victim? Use a data breach monitoring site. They keep an eye on criminal web sites where there are lists of stolen email addresses and credentials. Two work in a similar way: You enter your email address, and the site tells you whether it’s listed on a criminal site. Those two are “Have I Been Pwned” — which is spelled P-W-N-E-D, and Identity Leak. The easiest way to get to them is by a browser search and then bookmark the sites. Both allow you to register your email address so you’ll be sent a notice if they know your address has been compromised. The third service is called Hack Notice. It’s also free, but you have to create a login account with your email address and a 14-character password. Then you can register a number of email addresses or user names to be monitored. It also lets you compile a list of web sites you’ve registered with — like your bank or social media — and lets you know about reports that they’ve been hacked. There’s a separate service for businesses. These services are only useful for hacks where the attacker posts lists of stolen email addresses for sale. They won’t help if an individual hacks you and keeps it secret. There are some browser-based tools as well. Firefox Monitor is a service that uses the Have I Been Pwned dataset to check email addresses. You can also sign up for alerts. Google Password Checkup is a free extension you can add to the Chrome Browser. Every time you log into a site, it checks with a database and gives an alert if that username and password have been seen in a database of stolen credentials. There’s a plugin for any browser called Okta Passprotect that alerts for risky passwords. My thanks to security researcher John Opdenakker who wrote about this earlier this year. That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Microsoft to drop Skype for Business Online and replace with Teams in 2021 Federal government announces $12M in funding for second phase of CanCode program About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada