https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-you-need-to-install-this-windows-update-macos-upgrade-woes-twitter-phone-number-mess/422698
Hashtag Trending- You need to install this Windows update; macOS upgrade woes; Twitter phone number mess | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending- You need to install this Windows update; macOS upgrade woes; Twitter phone number mess Tom Li @itworldca Published: October 10th, 2019 Microsoft asks users to install a critical patch once again, Apple macOS Catalina messes up music tools, Twitter uses authentication phone numbers to create ads. That’s all the tech news that’s trending today. It’s Thursday, Oct. 10th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. First, trending on Google, Microsoft is urging users to install a critical update before installing the October cumulative update that adds security and stability improvements. The prerequisite is something called a Service Stack Update, which ensures that the Windows update tool works properly. You can download the patch in the link included in our transcript or check for it through the Windows update settings in the operating system. Microsoft isn’t the only one facing update woes, Apple’s latest macOS Catalina is causing trouble as well. It’s well-known that Catalina kills MacOS, but with its removal, Catalina also deleted an XML file that keeps track of iTunes’ local music collection. The problem is that some third-party music tools also rely on that XML file to function and would be broken without it. In addition, Catalina also drops support for 32-bit apps with only a single dialogue warning its users. Upon upgrading, users would have to sort through their program list and download their 64-bit alternatives. Lastly, trending on Reddit, Twitter has accidentally used phone numbers reserved for authentication to create ads. Upon its discovery, Twitter has addressed the issue and apologized for the mistake, but couldn’t say how many users were impacted. With that said, it does stress that no information has been shared with third party companies. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts EU warns of dangers of relying on one 5G equipment supplier Canada’s CIO Strategy Council publishes national AI standards About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada