https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/say-hello-to-microsofts-new-chromium-based-browser/426178
Say hello to Microsoft's new Chromium-based browser | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. The new Microsoft Edge browser logo IT Workplace Software Say hello to Microsoft’s new Chromium-based browser Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: January 17th, 2020 Microsoft officially launched its new Edge Chromium browser across both Windows and macOS operating systems this week and is available for download now. One of the biggest issues facing IT professionals is high costs and the complexity in managing enterprise companies that support two or more browsers for maximizing compatibility across legacy and modern websites. Microsoft is hoping to eliminate some of those frustrations by allowing enterprise users to access features like Internet Explorer mode, which lets businesses load legacy IE sites within Edge automatically. The new Edge browser also comes with Microsoft’s privacy promise and embraces new features such as tracking prevention in addition to offering three levels of control while employees are browsing. The tracking prevention feature will help businesses know who has access to their data and also give them the control to choose the information they share. Tracking prevention and SmartScreen features of the new Edge browser will also protect businesses from any type of malware, phishing scheme and malicious software. A study conducted by Ponemon Institute in 2019 says a data breach costs companies $3.2 million on average. In addition, new features like Collections will let employees more easily collect and organize web content and research, and export that information into Word or Excel. Jimmy Tom, research director at Info-Tech, noted in a recent presentation shared with IT World that the Chromium-based browser opens up new opportunities for Microsoft. “In effect, Microsoft can now compete in other races that it has never before considered,” he wrote, adding it could provide them with an advantage against AWS as the cloud race between the two tech giants intensifies. Additional benefits for users giving the new browser a try, he added, include having a much more unified experience for end-users on a platform that IT can control, as well as having the ability to easily port existing Chrome apps into Edge. The new Collections feature to allow employees more easily collect and organize web content and research. Microsoft Search in Bing can be easily accessed on mobile phones, thereby enabling knowledge workers to search for corporate information on the go. Microsoft Search in Bing can be accessed on mobile phones. Microsoft Search in Bing also offers new inPrivate mode so that online browsing and searches by employees are not attributed to them. The new Microsoft Edge browser offers new inPrivate mode. The new Microsoft Edge browser also comes with a new logo. The Microsoft Edge browser has a new logo In order to pilot the new Edge browser within the corporate environment, IT administrators will need to download an offline deployment package. The new Edge browser will not automatically deploy for enterprise or commercial customers, Microsoft says. Tools like Configuration Manager tools and Intune deployment, the company adds, can simplify deployment. The new browser is supported by FastTrack and App Assure. FastTrack will allow businesses with an eligible subscription to Azure, Dynamics 365, and Microsoft 365 to deploy this new browser at no extra charge. Businesses having sites compatible with legacy Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome, or Internet Explorer 8 and above, will also work on the new Microsoft Edge the same way. The new Microsoft Edge is available in more than 90 languages, ready to be downloaded on all supported versions of Windows and MacOS. It is also available to download on android and iOS. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace, Software Bing, browsers, Chrome, Excel, Google, Microsoft, Microsoft 365, Microsoft Edge, Microsoft Word, postmedia Cyber Security Today - Privacy of mobile apps questioned, medical images poorly protected and more Winnipeg-based online pharmacy warns of data breach About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada