https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/intel-announces-full-10th-gen-ice-lake-processor-launch-lineup/420503
Intel announces full 10th gen 'Ice Lake' processor launch lineup | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Infrastructure Mobility Intel announces full 10th gen ‘Ice Lake’ processor launch lineup Tom Li @itworldca Published: August 1st, 2019 Intel revealed the full launch lineup of its 10th generation “Ice Lake” mobile processors built on the Sunny Cove core architecture using 10nm node. The 10th generation processor marks the company’s largest architectural leap in over five years, bringing improvements in core efficiency, LPDDR4 RAM support, new instructions catered towards modern machine learning and big data workloads, improved graphics, and better connectivity. The new chips will first debut in mobile packages. As per tradition, it’s divided into mainstream 15W U-series and the low power 9W Y-series. More SKUs will be released down the line, including more powerful desktop variants. While the TDP floor for the Ice Lake U-series remains at 15W, the Y-series has had its TDP floor raised to 9W; nearly double that of the current generation Amber Lake Y-series processors. Intel has also raised the core count of its i5 and i7 Y-series processors from two to four. The specifications sheet shows that the highest-end Y-Series Core i7-1060G7 is comparable to the Core i7-1065G7, albeit with a lower all-core frequency and base frequency. Also note that due to different TDP requirements, the two processors throttle differently as well. In addition to processor improvements, Intel has markedly improved the integrated graphics. Since it now plays a more prominent role, Intel has also tiered its processors by graphics performance. The usual i3, i5, and i7 tiers are further segmented using the G1, G4, and G7 suffixes, which reflect different levels of graphics capabilities. The naming scheme has changed as well. Previously, Intel included a “Y” suffix to its lower-powered essential processors to differentiate between the higher-powered “U” series mainstream processors. That’s no longer the case with the Ice Lake. Instead, all “U” series SKUs will end in a 5, whereas all “Y” series will end in a 0. Intel claims that over 30 machines with Ice Lake processors will be available by the end of this year. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, Mobility hardware, Intel, intel canada, laptops, Processors Hashtag Trending - Apple pivots, Netflix is going Hollywood, Bernie unveils net neutrality plan Join us for the 35th annual Canadian Computer Charity Golf Classic About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Vulnerability in Intel chipsets could lead to ‘chaos’, predicts report Intel processor constraint to continue in 2020, says HPE CES 2020: Intel shows off Tiger Lake processors with ‘double-digit performance gains’ and new graphics CES 2020: AMD’s new 64-core Threadripper processor, new graphics card, and Ryzen 4000 processor Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada