https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/prepare-for-the-next-level-of-cyber-attacks/414891
Prepare for the next level of cyber-attacks | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Prepare for the next level of cyber-attacks Glenn Weir @itworldca Published: February 12th, 2019 The old cliché of the lone hacker, clacking away feverishly, blinds closed, coffee and cigarette his only companions, is well past its expiration date. Today’s hackers are no lone wolves; they’re creative professionals, members of sophisticated organizations run with all the intelligence and vision of any successful enterprise. “Cybersecurity has turned into a business,” said Trend Micro’s VP Cybersecurity Greg Young in a recent webinar with ITWC CIO Jim Love. “With this business has come a high level of creativity. This means that companies of every size need to be prepared for every level of attack.” View on demand: A Crash Course – Getting Security Right in 2019 A dramatic increase in how cybercriminal organizations are run, and in the skill level and professionalism of those who fill their ranks, has opened up businesses in the “legitimate economy” to more and more inventive attacks. Hackers are thinking outside the box, looking to simplify their work by reducing the number of steps they have to take to achieve their one and only goal: making money. “There’s a big shift over to crypto-mining with ransomware right now,” said Young. “Taking over a machine and ransoming someone is a lot of steps. The new way is to take over a machine, or take over resources, and use it to mine for bitcoin, for example. It’s not as confrontational, so that’s the big area. Crypto-jacking — or crypto-mining, as it’s called — that’s ransomware 2.0.” But Young says the biggest danger may very well still be coming from “old” threats. “A lot of the stuff that people are getting hit with has been seen before,” he said. “In fact, 99.99 per cent of the time you’re going to be hit with something we already know about. There’s already an antivirus or IPS signature out there. It’s already been researched. It may be a variant of it, but it’s still the same vulnerability.” In A Crash Course – Getting Security Right in 2019, Love and Young provide great (and timely) intel on the kinds of actions your organization should be taking in the near term based on what appears to be coming. The interactive one-hour session covers a lot of ground, including: Security spending and verticals The cybersecurity skills shortage and how to solve it Silos and the importance of communication The importance of tracking both data and spending Looking outside IT for organizational security risk Key takeaways that will set your company on the right path going forward into an uncertain future Ready for a crash course in security? View A Crash Course – Getting Security Right in 2019 on demand now. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cybersecurity, hacker, threat, Trend Micro ITAC to tackle cyber security skills shortage through tools website Coming soon to your television: Alexa and Google Assistant About Glenn Weir Content writer at IT World Canada. Book lover. Futurist. Sports nut. Once and future author. Would-be intellect. Irish-born, Canadian-raised. Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Sponsored By: FlexITy Overcoming security complexity The aftermath of a data breach and how to secure your business How to stonewall the hackers trying to to get around your MFA From ransomware infections to cryptomining scams, fake factory honeypot provides lessons for CISOs Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada