https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-yahoo-goes-down-an-android-update-canadian-cybersecurity-talent-shortage/421537
Hashtag Trending – Yahoo goes down, an Android update, Canadian cybersecurity talent shortage | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Yahoo goes down, an Android update, Canadian cybersecurity talent shortage Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: September 6th, 2019 Yahoo goes down, the latest Android update brings with it a bunch of new features, and a story about Canada’s cybersecurity talent shortage goes viral. There are a lot of reactions on Twitter about Yahoo’s services going down. As of this recording, Yahoo and Yahoo Mail are down, and Yahoo has confirmed the outage and says it’s working on a fix. When trying to check the main homepage, users are currently faced with the message “This site can’t be reached. www.yahoo.com’s server IP address could not be found.” Down Detector, which monitors outages across the web, is also showing thousands of reports across the UK and the rest of the world. It’s not going to rock your world, but you’ll definitely notice the latest changes in the Android 10 update. The operating system’s UI, security and privacy settings are all getting updates. Everyone loves Dark mode nowadays for some reason. and it’s officially going to be a system-wide feature in Android 10. The update is also introducing roughly 50 features and changes around privacy and security. Android 10 is getting its own privacy section in the settings menu to give users more control over location data and app permissions. A desktop mode is also hidden in the update, but is only accessible for developers and regular users, according to Google. And lastly, hundreds of LinkedIn users are sharing a story from the Globe and Mail about Canada’s cybersecurity talent shortages. Organizations across the country have approximately 8,000 roles to fill over the next few years, according to a recent study. The story points to the University of Ryerson’s attempts to help through its 20-week bootcamp-style training program backed by the Royal Bank of Canada. Talent retention is also a big issue, people are pointing out, as well as burn out by people already in those roles. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts New ransomware strain appears to target Linux web servers Cyber Security Today - Be careful buying child GPS trackers, company exposes customer email and a report on crimeware About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada