https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/microsofts-cloud-services-strategy-paying-off-according-to-q4-earnings/420148
Microsoft's cloud services strategy paying off, according to Q4 earnings | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Cloud Leadership Microsoft’s cloud services strategy paying off, according to Q4 earnings Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: July 22nd, 2019 Microsoft Corp. expanded its partnerships with some key companies in 2019, and Satya Nadella, Microsoft’s chief executive officer, attributed the company’s strong commercial cloud business performance in Q4 to those recent moves. “Azure is the most open cloud, and in this quarter, we expanded our partnerships with Oracle, Red Hat, and VMware, to make the technologies and tools customers already have first class on Azure,” said Nadella during an earnings call last week. “Our Commercial Cloud business is the largest in the world surpassing $38 billion in revenue for the year with gross margin expanding to 63 per cent. The world’s leading companies trust Azure for their mission-critical workloads, including more than 95 per cent of the Fortune 500. And just yesterday AT&T chose our cloud in one of the largest cloud commitments to date.” AT&T has for months touted its “public cloud-first” strategy, with the goal of moving the majority of its non-network workloads onto the public cloud by the year 2024. That goal took its first big step forward last week when AT&T and Microsoft announced a reported $2 billion deal. It’s a big win for both companies – Microsoft gets a major boost in the public cloud war for dominance against Amazon, while AT&T realizes its “public cloud-first” vision that also lays the ground work for future AI, IoT and 5G-related solutions. Microsoft’s commercial cloud solutions continue to drive a major portion of the company’s business in 2019, totaling almost one third of the company’s total revenue for the quarter; checking in at $11 billion USD of the companies $33.7 billion USD total revenue for Q4. After breaking $100 billion in yearly revenue for the first time in 2018, that growth did not slow down, as the company reported $125 billion in yearly revenue for 2019. Canada also received a brief mention during the call, as Nadella cited the Surface’s strong performance the country. “In Surface, revenue grew 14 per cent and 17 per cent in constant currency driven by strength in our commercial segment, particularly in the U.S., Japan, and Canada,” he said. Our thanks to investment research platform Seeking Alpha for the transcriptions from Microsoft’s July 18 Q4 earnings call. Cloud, Leadership Microsoft, Oracle, Red Hat, VMWare The CIO as business linchpin in the customer experience age Microsoft invests $1 billion in Elon Musk's OpenAI About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Hiring neurodiverse people has given us an edge, says AirGate CEO Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada