https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/in-response-to-covid-19-cisco-is-handing-out-90-day-business-licenses-for-free/428005
In response to COVID-19, Cisco is handing out 90-day business licenses for free | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. The Webex Desk Pro. File photo. Infrastructure IT Workplace Software In response to COVID-19, Cisco is handing out free 90-day Webex business licenses Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: March 3rd, 2020 Cisco has come forward to help those impacted by the spread of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) by offering free 90-day Webex licenses to businesses who are not Webex customers, the company announced on March 2. The company has also enhanced its free Webex account offerings to help its existing customers meet their increasingly changing needs as they enable a significantly greater number of remote workers. The additional capabilities include no time restrictions (unlimited usage), toll dial-in option (in addition to the existing VoIP feature), and the ability to support up to 100 participants. “Effective immediately, we’ve expanded the capabilities on our free Webex offer in all countries where it is available, not only those impacted by COVID-19,” the company wrote in a blog post. Since the outbreak of the disease, there has been an unprecedented increase in the number of people working remotely around the world. The traffic on the Webex backbone connecting China-based Webex users to their global workplaces has increased as much as 22 times due to global circumstances resulting from COVID-19, says Cisco. During the same period, it also noted four to five times as many users in Singapore, South Korea and Japan, with the average time spent on Webex video meetings increasing twofold among users there. Moreover, the company said, free sign-ups in impacted countries are up seven times, on average, over pre-outbreak. The company’s free Webex offer and paid subscription option are available in the following countries: Canada, Australia, Germany, France, New Zealand, Austria, Cyprus, Finland, Hong Kong, Belgium, Vietnam, Japan, Bulgaria, Switzerland, Singapore, Taiwan, South Korea, Sweden, Croatia, Malaysia, Latvia, Israel, Czech Republic, Norway, Malta, Denmark, Ireland, Poland, Lithuania, Estonia, Portugal, Italy, Gibraltar, Romania, Slovenia, Greece, Spain, Thailand, Netherlands, Hungary, Luxembourg, Slovakia, Ukraine, UAE (United Arab Emirates), United States, United Kingdom and South Africa. Free Webex offer is available in Brazil, Mexico, Macau, Indonesia and India; paid subscription can be availed by contacting sales. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More Infrastructure, IT Workplace, Software Cisco, coronavirus, COVID-19, postmedia, WebEx Hashtag Trending - iPhones in India; Amazon driver layoffs; Microsoft cancels ‘IoT in Action’ Canada has highest wireless value among G7 nations: U.S. study About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Insulating your business from COVID-19 impacts TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada