https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-bad-location-data-botches-court-cases-unsafe-items-on-amazon-youtube-pulls-more-than-200-channels/421208
Hashtag Trending – Bad location data botches court cases; unsafe items on Amazon; YouTube pulls more than 200 channels | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Bad location data botches court cases; unsafe items on Amazon; YouTube pulls more than 200 channels Tom Li @itworldca Published: August 26th, 2019 Denmark to review court cases after discovering faulty cell location data, unsafe items being are sold on Amazon, YouTube terminates more than 200 accounts undermining Hong Kong protests. That’s all the tech news that’s trending today. It’s Monday, August 26th, and I’m your host, Tom Li. Trending on Reddit, Denmark is reviewing more than 10,000 court cases after reports of incorrect cell location tracking. Cell phone location data can link a person’s whereabouts to a crime, and if it’s flawed, then it could lead to wrongful convictions. According to the New York Times, in a few instances, some cellphones were erroneously linked to the wrong tower, which could have mislabelled innocents to crime scenes. Affected cases date back all the way to 2012 and are undergoing review. Trending on Reddit again, Amazon has been caught items that were deemed unsafe by federal agencies. A Wall Street Journal investigation revealed more than 4,000 items, many of which are toys and medications, that have been deemed unsafe or lack the proper warning labels. In response to the report, Amazon says that its automated vetting AI has blocked more than three billion suspicious items from being sold in 2018 alone. Unfortunately, even a marginal error in the algorithm can result in massive consequences for a platform as big as Amazon. Finally, trending on Google, YouTube has terminated over 200 channels tied to Chinese media reporting on the ongoing Hong Kong protest. In a blog post, Google stated that the accounts showed masking behaviors that tried to hide its origins, which are consistent with influence operations related to China. Google’s move came just two days after both Facebook and Twitter had swept up hundreds of accounts that undermined the protest in Hong Kong on the grounds that they’re linked to the Chinese government. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Meet your customer experience officer: ITWC report reveals the new business role of the CIO Cyber Security Today - Who really is that voice, 80 indicted for email fraud and ditch old software About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada