https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/amazon-surprised-about-pentagon-contract-snub/423349
Amazon 'surprised' about Pentagon contract snub | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Artificial Intelligence Cloud Digital Transformation Managed Services & Outsourcing Software Amazon ‘surprised’ about Pentagon contract snub Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: October 29th, 2019 The United States Department of Defense recently awarded Microsoft its Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure (JEDI) cloud contract, worth up to $10 billion over 10 years. The contract specifically calls for the supply of infrastructure and platform services for the Pentagon’s business and mission operations. Microsoft beat out Google, Oracle and IBM, and its biggest rival, Amazon. In a statement, Amazon said it was surprised to have lost the huge contract, despite being considered the front-runner for the most part. “We’re surprised about this conclusion,” an Amazon Web Services told GeekWire. “AWS is the clear leader in cloud computing, and a detailed assessment purely on the comparative offerings clearly lead to a different conclusion. We remain deeply committed to continuing to innovate for the new digital battlefield where security, efficiency, resiliency, and scalability of resources can be the difference between success and failure.” Google told GeekWire it dropped out of the running for the contract this past October, saying they “couldn’t be assured that it would align with our AI Principles” and that portions of the contract “were out of scope with our current government certifications.” “Had the JEDI contract been open to multiple vendors, we would have submitted a compelling solution for portions of it,” the company wrote. The department said the contract will specifically address urgent and important unmet warfighter needs for modern cloud infrastructure at all three classification levels delivered out to the tactical edge. The base period for the contract is two years with a guarantee of $1 million. The department has estimated an expenditure of $210 million on user adoption during this base period. It will review the performance of the contract before deciding to exercise any of the options, as per the announcement by the department. The expected date of completion for this particular project is Oct. 24, 2029. Pentagon has awarded over $11 billion across 10 separate cloud contracts over the last two years. The department plans additional contracts for cloud services and complementary migration and integration solutions necessary to achieve successful cloud adoption for more effective execution of its cloud strategy, as per a press release by the department. Artificial Intelligence, Cloud, Digital Transformation, Managed Services & Outsourcing, Software Amazon, cloud, defense, Defense Department, Google, IBM, Microsoft, Microsoft Azure, Oracle, PaaS, SaaS, Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), U.S. government Hashtag Trending - Microsoft wins government contract; Alphabet bids for Fitbit; Facebook takes down fake ad Toronto-based startup among Microsoft’s AI for Accessibility grantees About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Can Huawei’s AppGallery really replace Google’s Play Store? I spend a week with Huawei’s Google-less phone Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada