https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-apple-engineer-speak-out-about-tough-border-searches-google-partners-with-intel-for-hybrid-cloud-spotifys-google-home-mini-giveaway/416882
Hashtag Trending – Apple engineer speak out about tough border searches; Google partners with Intel for hybrid cloud; Spotify's Google Home mini giveaway | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Apple engineer speak out about tough border searches; Google partners with Intel for hybrid cloud; Spotify’s Google Home mini giveaway Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: April 10th, 2019 An Apple engineer’s experience at the border raises questions about civil liberties. Google announces a partnership with Intel for cloud computing. And how to get a free Google Home Mini. ACLU Asks CBP Why Its Threatening US Citizens With Arrest For Refusing Invasive Device Searches from technology Trending on Reddit, an Apple engineer’s experience at the U.S. customs and border protection in San Francisco International Airport is getting attention from the American Civil Liberties Union. Andreas Gal was detained by customs agents when he was returning home from an international trip. As Gal tells it, he was asked to unlock both his smartphone and laptop by customs. He replied that he wanted to check with his employer, and a lawyer. Since there was proprietary and unreleased software code on his devices, he wanted to know what his obligations were to Apple. The agents threatened him with federal charges. Later, his Global Entry privileges were revoked. Gal believes he was singled out due to his vocal opposition to Donald Trump’s privacy and immigration polcies. The ACLU has filed a complaint with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Trending on Google, news from the Google Cloud Next conference in San Francisco. Google and Intel announced a strategic partnership focused on hybrid cloud – in other words, helping companies run applications from both the servers they keep in their own data centres, and on the servers provided by public cloud vendors. Intel will be releasing a new reference design, called “Anthos”, around the middle of this year. It will be based on its new second-generation Xeon Scalable processor, and the Kubernetes software stack. It will help customers achieve better workload portability, meaning it’s easier to run your applications, no matter where they happen to be stored. Starting today, new and existing Spotify Premium subscribers in Canada can get a Google Home Mini as part of their monthly plan. Find out more here –> https://t.co/cR67dbQLan pic.twitter.com/sbp2Uzr2st — Google Canada (@googlecanada) April 9, 2019 Trending on Twitter, Spotify is giving away a Google Home Mini to all of its premium service subscribers. Existing and new subscribers can claim their free smart speaker until May 9th, or until supplies last. Note this offer only applies for the $9.99 per month single-user subscription. If you have the Family Premium account for up to five users you don’t get one. You know, a Google Home Mini would be a great way to listen to Hashtag Trending. Twitter user Shizzy A says that she listens on her Amazon Echo while she’s getting ready for work. I listen to it on my amazon Alexa echo dot while I get ready for work!! @itworldca — Shizzy A (@Shizzy_A) April 9, 2019 Tweet at us and tell us how you listen to Hashtag Trending. Our Twitter handle is @itworldca. Again, that’s @itworldca. We’ll share your answers on a future podcast. Careers Apple, Google Cloud Platform, hashtag trending, podcasts, Spotify Futurpreneur Canada helping tech start ups thrive with funding and mentorship Cyber Security Today: Watch for updates for a car app, Windows and more About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada