https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-pleas-to-big-tech-ai-predicts-when-youll-quit-a-robotic-exosuit/421308
Hashtag Trending – Pleas to big tech, AI predicts when you'll quit, a robotic exosuit | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Pleas to big tech, AI predicts when you’ll quit, a robotic exosuit Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: August 27th, 2019 Companies ask tech giants Apple and Amazon to think about the planet, Harvard says it can use machine learning to predict who is going to quit their job next, and a robotic exosuit that can boost your ability to walk and run. Planet before profits! That’s the message the bosses of some of the world’s biggest companies, including Amazon and Apple, have been told through a full-page ad in Sunday’s edition of the New York Times. The ad, paid for by more than 30 American business leaders from companies such as clothing brand Patagonia, The Body Shop, Ben & Jerry’s, stresses the need for big tech to move towards a more ethical way of doing business. These business leaders are part of a community called the B Corp. movement, which describes itself as a “global movement of people using business as a force for good”. According to the Guardian, more than 3,000 companies globally have become members of B Corp after completing a certification process. The story is gaining a lot of attention on Reddit, and while some Redditors are optimistic of the B Corp movement, many remain unsure about the sincerity behind some companies’ claims that they’re indeed thinking about the planet over profits. Trending on LinkedIn is a study from Harvard that says machine learning algorithms that weigh a person’s past jobs and skills, among other data sets, is helping them determine when a person is on the verge of jumping ship. The study was conducted to gauge the effectiveness of exit interviews and employee surveys – neither of which give managers a real-time picture of who might be considering leaving. While some on LinkedIn are applauding the unique use machine learning algorithms, there are many on the other side of the fence saying they would actually be turned off by an employer integrating such an algorithm. And lastly, also trending on LinkedIn, a story about how researchers have developed a robotic exosuit that can boost a person’s ability to both walk and run. Made of soft textile materials, the suit weighs 11 pounds and is equipped with sensors that can detect whether a person is walking or running and with the help of electric motors and cables, respond with the appropriate boost. According to a research paper published in Science Mag, the suit makes people feel roughly 16 pounds lighter when walking and 12 and a half pounds lighter when running. Some of the obvious use cases of the exosuits include assisting soldiers, rescue workers and those with disabilities. Let’s hope the suit never gets hacked while being worn. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Canadian customers’ heads are still in the clouds, and so is VMware’s VMworld 2019: day one highlights About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada