https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/jeff-weiner-steps-down-as-linkedin-ceo/426953
Linked CEO to step down and become the company's executive chairman  | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. From left: LinkedIn CEO Jeff Weiner, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, and LinkedIn cofounder and controlling shareholder Reid Hoffman Careers IT Workplace Leadership Jeff Weiner to step down as LinkedIn CEO Pragya Sehgal @itworldca Published: February 5th, 2020 In an email to his employees at LinkedIn today, Jeff Weiner wrote that he will be stepping down as the company’s chief executive officer on June 1, 2020 to begin his next role as the company’s executive chairman. Ryan Roslansky, the current global head of product at LinkedIn, will assume the role of the company’s next chief executive officer, Weiner added in his email. “Last summer, I began talking with Satya about transitioning from my current dream job to my next one and helping him decide on my successor as CEO. Today, I am excited to announce that effective June 1, 2020, I will be stepping into the role of executive chairman of LinkedIn and Ryan Roslansky, currently our global head of product, will become LinkedIn’s next CEO,” Weiner wrote. Roslanksy was the first hire Weiner made after joining LinkedIn in December 2008. As the new LinkedIn CEO, Roslanksy will be reporting directly to Satya Nadella, the chief executive officer of Microsoft, and become a part of his senior leadership team, fulfilling the same responsibilities that Weiner has over the last three years. Tomer Cohen, current vice-president of product at LinkedIn, has been selected by Roslanksy to become the company’s new head of product. Careers, IT Workplace, Leadership Chairman, chief exec, LinkedIn, Microsoft, product development No expectation of privacy in an IP address, Alberta judge rules Vodafone to chop Huawei equipment from core of its European wireless network About Pragya Sehgal Can be contacted at psehgal@itwc.ca or 647.695.3494. Born and raised in the capital city of India - Delhi - bounded by the river Yamuna on the west, Pragya has climbed the Himalayas, and survived medical professional stream in high school without becoming a patient or a doctor. Pragya now makes her home in Canada with her husband - a digital/online marketing fanatic who also loves to prepare beautiful, healthy and delicious meals for her. When she isn’t working or writing around tech, she’s probably watching art films on Netflix, or wondering whether she should cut her hair short or not. Join Pragya Sehgal on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Microsoft closes all retail locations due to COVID-19 concerns Hiring neurodiverse people has given us an edge, says AirGate CEO Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada