https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/sap-selected-by-government-to-test-complexities-of-payroll-and-hr-requirements/428234
SAP selected by government to test a replacement for Phoenix pay system | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Public Sector Software SAP selected by government to test a replacement for Phoenix pay system Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: March 6th, 2020 The Government of Canada continues its journey towards replacing the controversial Phoenix pay system, and today announced it has selected SAP to test the government’s payroll and human resources requirements. Announced by the Minister of Digital Government, Joyce Murray, it will be a pilot project aimed at testing a potential new payroll and HR solution. “Canada’s hard-working employees should be paid accurately and on time,” said Murray in the press release. “Today’s announcement is an important milestone towards building an efficient next-generation solution that is better aligned with the complexity of the federal government’s HR and pay structure. I am focused on moving this forward while taking the time to get it right.” In the meantime, Public Services and Procurement Canada will continue to work to stabilize the Phoenix Pay System. Related: Phoenix failure will cost government $2.2 billion: Senate The selection of SAP was made after months of evaluation of three tech vendors: Ceridian, Workday, and the ultimately victorious SAP. “Team SAP looks forward to continuing to work with public servants, unions and employees on a modern, digital solution– one that will meet the needs of the Federal Public Service and its employees,” said Andy Canham, the president of SAP Canada, in the press release. The other two candidates – Ceridian and Workday – will remain on the qualified list of suppliers for any future HR and payroll work with the government. Public Sector, Software Government of Canada, Phoenix, Phoenix pay system, SAP Koodo admits February data breach, data already being sold on dark web A running list of cancelled or postponed tech events due to COVID-19 About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Fixing ‘unmanageable’ Phoenix system will take roughly a year, says SAP Canada can learn from U.S. cyber report, says expert Group to create Canadian cyber standards for electricity sector IoT devices Movement starts to have Canada declare Sept. 1 as International Women in Cyber Day Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada