https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-a-brewing-tech-cold-war-facebook-takes-on-fake-accounts-comcast-eyes-healthcare/418348
A brewing tech cold war, Facebook takes on fake accounts, Comcast eyes healthcare | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – A brewing tech cold war, Facebook takes on fake accounts, Comcast eyes healthcare Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Published: May 24th, 2019 Panasonic joins a growing list of companies turning their backs on Huawei, Facebook doubles down on deleting fake accounts, and Comcast is working on an in-home device that tracks health. First up from Reddit is news that Panasonic has become the latest company to sever ties with Chinese tech giant Huawei. Despite the U.S. easing up on blacklisting the company in the near future, Panasonic says it will stop supplying Huawei with tech components and cease all business with it. The decision from the Japanese company comes just days after 4 Japanese and one British mobile carrier said they would delay releasing new Huawei handsets. Panasonic joins the likes of Google, Intel, Qualcomm and Lumentum in turning their backs on Huawei. Some are calling this a “tech cold war” between the US and China. Next up from Twitter is Facebook’s battle against fake accounts. The social media giant has announced it’s deleted around three billion fake or abusive accounts between this past October and March 2019. That’s about double the number it deleted in the previous 6 months. Facebook says it’s seen a “steep increase” in the creation of fake accounts. While most of them are shut down almost immediately, the company is warning that for as many as it catches, there are others that squeeze through the cracks. Facebook says around five per cent of its 2.4 billion monthly active users are fake – or about 119 million. And last but not least from LinkedIn, American telecommunications conglomerate Comcast is reportedly building a device that will help people track their health at home. CNBC cites anonymous sources and says the device won’t be a voice assistant like Amazon’s Alexa, but it is expected to have a similar personality. The new health monitoring device will apparently be able to make emergency calls and detect falls. It’ll use ambient sensors to focus on whether someone is making frequent trips to the bathroom or spending more time than usual in bed. The device is supposed to begin pilot-testing this year, and the intention is to roll it out in full next year. Comcast is already in talks with hospitals about taking on shared savings — if it can keep people from expensive emergency room visits. Careers comcast, Facebook, fake news, Google, hashtag trending, health, Huawei, Panasonic, podcast Microsoft announces $500,000 investment in Leonardo Dicaprio Foundation at Collision Cyber Security Today: Shopping sites victimized, a slip at Microsoft and cryptocurrency blues About Mandy Kovacs Mandy is a lineup editor at CTV News. A former staffer at IT World Canada, she's now contributing as a part-time podcast host on Hashtag Trending. She is a Carleton University journalism graduate with extensive experience in the B2B market. When not writing about tech, you can find her active on Twitter following political news and sports, and preparing for her future as a cat lady. Follow Follow @MandyVKovacs on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Huawei Watch GT 2 ups the ante in functionality Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada