https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-microsoft-admits-android-is-best-ai-solves-rubiks-cube-selfies-are-for-narcissists/423136
Hashtag Trending – Microsoft admits Android is best; AI solves Rubiks Cube; Selfies are for narcissists | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Microsoft admits Android is best; AI solves Rubiks Cube; Selfies are for narcissists Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: October 22nd, 2019 Microsoft admits that Android is the best OS; AI-powered robot hand solves Rubiks Cube; Study shows selfies are a tool for narcissists While previous smartphones released by Microsoft ran on its own operating system called Windows Mobile, its newest device dubbed the Surface Pro will be running on Android. Not only that, but Microsoft’s CPO, Panos Panay, surprised the world and said that Android is the best operating system for this device, and it is trending on Google. The CPO went on to say that Microsoft is trying to meet their customers where they are, and they are on Android. For as long as AI has been a hot topic, people have wondered what sort of effect artificial intelligence could actually have on the physical world. Well now, according to a story trending on Google, the Dactyl robotic hand designed by OpenAI, has managed to solve a Rubiks Cube in under 4 minutes with just one hand. While the tech industry has struggled to achieve such goals in the past, the missing piece of the puzzle seemed to be reinforcement learning which is based on trial and error. And last but not least, we have another story trending on Google. For those of you listening who love to post a good selfie, this story may rub you the wrong way. New research out of the University of Alberta indicates that a certain subset of narcissists find extreme validation from the posting of selfies and the subsequent approval from online users, thus making it the perfect tool for narcissists! So next time you go to post that fire selfie, ask yourself, does the world really need to see this or is this just to stroke my ego? Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Trend Micro acquires Cloud Conformity Microsoft acquires Mover to make file migration to Microsoft 365 easier About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada