https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-amd-announces-ryzen-3000-gates-reading-list-facebook-crypto/418420
Hashtag Trending – AMD announces Ryzen 3000; Gates' reading list; Facebook crypto | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Opinion Hashtag Trending – AMD announces Ryzen 3000; Gates’ reading list; Facebook crypto Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: May 28th, 2019 AMD drops some big announcements at Computex, Bill Gates’ summer reading list, and Facebook announces its plans for its own cryptocurrency. AMD’s new chips signal a major shift in desktop performance, and Reddit users believe they could spell the end of Intel’s dominance at the top, despite the recent launch of Intel’s Core i9-9900KS (i-nine, ninety-nine hundred KS). AMD president and CEO Lisa Su took the stage this weekend at Taipei’s Computex technology show and revealed three 3rd Gen Ryzen Zen 2 7nm CPUs, which use AMD’s 7nm chiplet design. Starting with the Ryzen 9 3900X, which offers 24 threads, uses two CCD’s to get to 12 cores, boasts a massive 70MB cache and can boost up to 4.6GHz. The benchmarks are a clear sign that AMD has made significant gains in both multi-threaded and single-threaded performance. Intel has largely dominated the multi-threaded space, but now AMD claims they can match or improve on Intel’s offerings. Bill Gates’ summer reading list is trending on LinkedIn. The former Microsoft CEO was quick to point out his picks weren’t the lightest reads out there, but the topic of “upheaval” was a common theme. One of his picks written by Jared Diamond is actually titled “Upheavel” and is about how societies react during moments of crisis. Gates’ other picks include: Nine Pints of Blood, by Rose George; A Gentleman in Moscow, by Amor Towles (A-more Towels); Presidents at War, by Michael Beschloss; and The Future of Capitalism by Paul Collier. And lastly, also trending on LinkedIn – Facebook’s plans for cryptocurrency. BBC is reporting the company wants to start testing its cryptocurrency by the end of this year, and launch in about a dozen countries in early 2020. Facebook says it plans to set up a digital system allowing affordable and secure payments to be made with cryptocurrency, even for users without bank accounts. People chiming in on the news suggest the move could help Facebook diversify its revenue stream by moving away from advertising. Others have naturally brought up concerns related to privacy and personal data, which is unsurprising considering how Facebook has handled users’ data in recent years. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Remember to add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Opinion cryptocurrency, Facebook, hashtag trending, podcasts Social media giants focus of three-day parliamentary hearing in Ottawa Experts whack social media companies as Canadian hearing on disinformation opens About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada