https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/google-releases-google-pixel-3a-and-pixel-3a-xl-for-the-mid-range-market/417767
Google releases Google Pixel 3a and Pixel 3a XL for the midrange market | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Mobility Wireless & IoT Google releases Google Pixel 3a and Pixel 3a XL for the midrange market Tom Li @itworldca Published: May 7th, 2019 Before the curtain dropped on the Google I/O 2019 event held at the Shoreline Amphitheatre, it announced the midrange Google Pixel 3a series smartphones as a major climax. Name Google Pixel 3a Google Pixel 3a XL Chipset Qualcomm Snapdragon 670 RAM 4GB Display 5.6″ 2,160 x 1080p OLED 6″ 2,160 x 1080p OLED Storage 64GB 64GB Camera (Rear) 12.2MP, f/1.8 Camera (Front) 8MP Battery 3,000 mAh 3,700 mAh Ports USB-C, 3.5mm headphone jack OS Android Pie Price Starting at US$399 The most discernable physical difference between the original Pixel 3 and the Pixel 3a is the build quality. In order to push down the price, the Google Pixel 3a abandons an all-glass build and goes full plastic for its backings. Internally, the Pixel 3a and Pixel 3a XL are equipped with the mid-range Qualcomm Snapdragon 670. These chipsets are less powerful than Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 855 SoC, but also use less battery and should still deliver a punchy multimedia performance. Like the Google 3s, the new phones run on Google’s stock Android 9 “Pie” operating system, just missing Android “Q” official release. Being a Google device, it will receive priority software update for three years from the initial release date. The Pixel 3a sports a slightly larger screen than the Pixel 3, while the Pixel 3a XL is slightly smaller. The display difference and build material aside, they’re both identical to their more premium counterparts. That similarity extends to their cameras. The Pixel 3a features the same 12.2MP rear shooter like the original Pixels. That’s fantastic news considering that the Google Pixel 3 had one of the best cameras last year, stunning everyone with its Night Mode and Super Resolution Zoom. Camera hardware aside, its success owes a huge part to its AI capabilities. The dual-sensor front camera didn’t get carried over, unfortunately. Neither the Google Pixel 3a or the 3a XL has an ultra-wide sensor at the front. While the front camera skips on a sensor, a familiar feature makes a return: the headphone jack. Wired headphones aren’t dead, so including a headphone jack is just more user-friendly. Both models feature a larger battery than their premium counterparts. The Google Pixel 3a XL is especially notable as it has a cell that’s rated almost 300mAh higher than its predecessor. Whereas the premium Google Pixel phones are priced at flagship pricepoints, the Google Pixel 3a and 3a XL is available today starting at $399. It will come in Just black, Pearl White, and Purple-ish. Related Download Sponsor: Absolute Software The State of Endpoint Protection & Management: Why Self-Healing is the New Mandate Lost and stolen devices. Employees off grid. Repairs or firmware upgrades. Endpoint device visibility frequently goes dark, leaving them vulnerable and open to attack. IT and security teams need a better way than traditional approaches to strengthen the security, visibility and management of endpoint devices. Register Now Mobility, Wireless & IoT Android, Google, google pixel, google pixel 3a, google pixel 3a xl, postmedia, smartphone Unprotected database of thousands of Freedom Mobile subscribers found by security company SAPPHIRE NOW: Combining O-Data and X-Data is "next frontier" in business About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada