https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-huawei-enters-u-k-5g-shopifys-new-office-dont-pay-to-activate-your-phone/426642
Hashtag Trending – Huawei enters U.K. 5G; Shopify's new office; don't pay to activate your phone | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Huawei enters U.K. 5G; Shopify’s new office; don’t pay to activate your phone Tom Li @itworldca Published: January 29th, 2020 In an anticipated move, the U.K. has rolled out the red carpet for Huawei and allowed it into its 5G network. Also, if you’re a Shopify employee in Vancouver, you’ll be getting a new office and new coworkers soon. Finally, learn about how to avoid the expensive connection fee when you activate your phone. Thank you for tuning in to Hashtag Trending, it’s Wednesday, January 29th, and I’m your host, Tom Li Trending everywhere, the United Kingdom has let Huawei into its 5G network infrastructure, albeit with some caveats. As part of the Five Eye alliance, the U.K. has been under heavy pressure from the United States to ban Huawei over security concerns. Even then, Huawei has been allowed to operate in the U.K., although it can only constitute 35 per cent of the nation’s 5G network and cannot be in the core network, military bases, and nuclear sites. A number of publications also noted that Canada could follow the U.K.’s leniency and allow Huawei to operate in a similar capacity. Trending on Twitter, Shopify is looking to hire 1,000 workers for its brand new Vancouver office this year. The new headquarter would provide its workers with a permanent workspace instead of just temporary rental spaces. The four-story building would be located in the center of downtown Vancouver, spanning a grand 6,500 square meters. Trending on Google, Telus and Koodo are hiking the smartphone activation fee to $40, a $5 increase over the previous cost. According to Telus’ website, the fee includes a SIM card, phone activation on the network, and a few services like SmartStart and Learning Sessions. With that said, users can avoid being charged by activating the phone online. Other major carriers offer similar terms at the same pricing. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Tom Li, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts HPE wants to help make data centres greener, unveils new efficiency label From ransomware infections to cryptomining scams, fake factory honeypot provides lessons for CISOs About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada