https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-kickstarter-unionizes-inbox-damage-control-bezos-pledges-to-fight-climate-change/427533
Hashtag Trending - Kickstarter unionizes, Inbox damage control, Bezos pledges to fight climate change | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Kickstarter unionizes, Inbox damage control, Bezos pledges to fight climate change Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: February 20th, 2020 Kickstarter employees have voted in favour of forming a union, Twitter talks about how they prevent their email inbox from catching on fire, and Jeff Bezos says he’s pledging $10 billion to fight climate change, but Reddit isn’t convinced. It marks the first time a major tech company has moved toward organized labour. Kickstarter will be affiliated with the Office and Professional Employees International Union, and are set to start discussions over equal pay and inclusive hiring. The move, according to a Polygon article, comes after months of conflict at the small New York-based tech company. Many people on LinkedIn are calling the move a milestone for the tech industry, where employee activism has recently been on the rise over topics including harassment, corporate culture and climate change. Email doesn’t have to be a source of stress, but who are we kidding, it always will be. Or will it? A Twitter thread from Forge, a new Medium publication about personal development, tried to introduce people to a few easy ways to manage emails without installing new software and hardware. Among the suggestions, the thread encourages people to keep it simple – no flashy bells and whistles. Also, don’t feel compelled to keep your unread messages at 0 – that’s overkill. And lastly, try to send better emails yourself. If your message is clear and concise, it could avoid confusion and subsequent follow-up emails that waste everyone’s time. Jeff Bezos likes to start fires then cosplay as a firefighter. His $10 billion climate change check is no different: Last year, Bezos ostensibly donated out of the good of his heart to Seattle’s homeless shelters—while Amazon aggressively lobbied the city to drop a tax which would help the homeless from technology And lastly, a story by the Independant is gaining lotsa traction on Reddit. The world’s richest man says he’s pledging $10 billion to fight climate change, but is he really trying to create positive change? Or, as the article puts it, is he cosplaying as a firefighter instead. The story, and the Reddit thread it was posted on, highlights a lot of the inconsistencies that come with the billionaire’s philanthropy. One example that Redditors have mentioned more than once is the money Bezos donated last year to help Seattle’s homeless while Amazon lobbied the city to drop a tax which would help the homeless population. The post has more than 22,000 upvotes and nearly 1,500 comments. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Ottawa Hospital announces partnership to democratize its data throughout the organization How a nine-year-old's question sparked a Canadian cybersecurity conference for women About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada