https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/itac-to-tackle-cyber-security-skills-shortage-through-tools-website/415017
ITAC to tackle cyber security skills shortage through tools website | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Privacy & Security ITAC to tackle cyber security skills shortage through tools website Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: February 12th, 2019 It seems CISOs have been complaining about the cyber skills shortage ever since the first hacker was found. But finding people with identifiable and particular skills on their resumes isn’t easy. After all, students want to know what is a cyber security specialist? How many certifications are needed? Where are courses offered? In what areas is there job demand…? The industry-led Information Technology Association of Canada (ITAC) will try to bring some order into this chaos. The group said this month it has secured a three-year grant from the Employment and Social Development Canada to create a useful framework for students, hiring managers and Statistics Canada’s labour market needs forecast. The association hopes to bring in other groups such as colleges, universities and vendors to help create an online go-to resource for information on cyber security careers and education. Related Articles Circumventing the cyber security skills shortage By Tom Scholtz, Gartner Inc. Increasing cyber security threats mean most security and risk management leaders are growing their IT... November 1st, 2018 Gartner @Gartner_inc Cyber Security Today: Will AI solve the cyber security skills shortage, and protect your Facebook account Automation and the cyber security skills shortage, a Facebook worm is found and the best ways to protect your Facebook... May 2nd, 2018 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC “We will be developing industry-validated national occupational standards and a competency framework, [and] a certification and accreditation regime to address skill shortages,” Gina van Dalen, executive director of ITAC’s talent and business technical forum said in an interview. “The goal is to accelerate learning, skills development and career development.” To save time the framework will be based on the extensive U.S. National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE) framework, but tailored for Canadian needs. For example, that framework has a number of workforce categories (securely provision, operate and maintain, oversee and govern, protect and defend, analyze, collect and operate, investigate), each with definitions (a person with securely provision skills is expected to be able to conceptualize, design, procure and/or build security IT systems). “Following from that we’ll be looking at developing national occupational standards, which are job descriptions, and learning outcomes that can be used by post-secondary institutions.” After the framework has been finalized workplace development tools will be easier to create, such as an online workforce supply-and-demand heat map similar to the NICE Cyber Seek map. Not only does that site offer a map of all U.S. states showing job openings that a user can drill down into (as of Tuesday there were 107 job openings in Bismark, N.D., and 6,006 in the Phoenix area), it is broken down by public and private sector opportunities. A typical NICE job heat map from the Cyber Seek website In addition, the site has a Career Pathway graphic that shows five common feeder roles, and the entry/mid-level/advanced jobs it may lead to (for example, a career in security intelligence could start with a job as a cyber security specialist, which could lead to being an analyst, consultant or penetration tester) A typical career path graphic from the NICE Cyber Seek website Another tool to be developed under the ITAC program will be an automatic job description generator that will help organizations link into the framework to identify the skills they’re looking for. Van Dalen said it would be particularly useful for small firms looking to hire someone who isn’t a cyber security specialist but is “a person with many hats.” Finally, the framework will also link to an online catalog of cyber security training and education courses across the country. Van Dalen hopes the initial components of this plan will be online in mid-2020. She said because there is a moratorium on parts of the agreement with the government the amount of the grant can’t be divulged yet. The project also includes a survey of the artificial intelligence job market. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Privacy & Security IT jobs, itac, security strategies Hashtag Trending - Mozilla to make Firefox more secure; Russia to disconnect itself from the internet; iOS update breaking iPhone signals Prepare for the next level of cyber-attacks About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye Weak and re-used passwords still common, says vendor report Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada