https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/github-acquires-npm-to-aid-javascript-developers/428735
Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Software Github acquires npm to aid JavaScript developers Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: March 20th, 2020 The Microsoft-owned Github this week announced that is has acquired npm, a company with a large registry of JavaScript packages. Nat Friedman, Github’s chief executive officer, who made the announcement in a blog post, wrote that npm’s place in the open-source community and their extensive registry of JavaScript packages was a key reason for the purchase. “npm is a critical part of the JavaScript world. The work of the npm team over the last 10 years, and the contributions of hundreds of thousands of open source developers and maintainers, have made npm home to over 1.3 million packages with 75 billion downloads a month. Together, they’ve helped JavaScript become the largest developer ecosystem in the world,” wrote Friedman. “We at GitHub are honored to be part of the next chapter of npm’s story and to help npm continue to scale to meet the needs of the fast-growing JavaScript community.” Microsoft is just one of many tech companies who have increased their focus on open-source in recent years, following the belief that by turning to an open-source strategy, they will attract more developers. That belief appears to jive with some recent statistics. A 2019 study sponsored by Red Hat said that 69 per cent of IT leaders believed open-source to be very important to business and 68 per cent said they had increased their usage of open-source in the 12 months preceding the study. Friedman went on to explain that their three biggest goals, once the deal finalizes, will be to invest in the registry infrastructure and platform, improve the core experience, and engage with the community. Existing paying customers who already use npm Pro, Teams, and Enterprise to host private registries will experience no service changes. Friedman also noted that the company will be heavily investing in GitHub packages as a multi-language packages registry full integrated with GitHub and later this year they will be enabling npm paying customers to move their private npm packages to GitHub Packages. Software GitHub, JavaScript, Microsoft, NPM, open-source, postmedia Why aren't women in cybersecurity? Because sometimes they get groped at work Now that more employees are working from home because of COVID-19, time for IT to toughen controls About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada