https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/2018-cio-of-the-year-private-sector-mark-saunders/412064
2018 CIO of the Year – Private Sector – Mark Saunders | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech 2018 CIO of the Year – Private Sector – Mark Saunders IT World Canada @itworldca Published: November 6th, 2018 PRIVATE SECTOR WINNER: MARK SAUNDERS 2018 CanadianCIO of the Year (Private Sector) award winner Mark Saunders joined Sun Life Financial in 2009. At that time, Sun Life was not spending much on IT or innovation. However, Saunders was instrumental in Sun Life’s change of course, hiring not only the technical team to support his ambitious goals but also prioritizing a transformation of his new organization’s office workspaces. In short order, employee engagement was through the roof, and Sun Life was on several “top workplaces in Canada” lists, including LinkedIn’s. Sun Life’s new global headquarters at One York, established in 2017, hosts the Ignite Studio space that is inspired by the most innovative firms in Silicon Valley. Saunders’ team uses an agile development approach to deliver at least one new release to the mobile channel per quarter. The firm’s My Sun Life Mobile app on Google Play and the App Store is the highest-rated app in Canada’s financial industry. Saunders’ team has also delivered Ella, an interactive digital coach that is accessible through the mobile app, or Google Home or Amazon Alexa. To read more about Saunders: ITWC Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech CIO of the Year, Mark Saunders, Sun Life Five cyber security trends to prepare for: Gartner 2018 CIO of the Year – Public Sector – Tara Mulrooney Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content CanadianCIO of the Year finalists gathering for powerful discussion Nominate a worthy CanadianCIO of the Year – Deadline fast approaching 5 Lessons from New Technology Leaders: Mark Saunders, Sun Life 2018 CIO of the Year – Public Sector – Tara Mulrooney Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada