https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/nova-scotias-cdo-urges-other-governments-to-create-digital-services-teams/424949
Nova Scotia's CDO encourages other governments to create digital services teams | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Public Sector Nova Scotia’s CDO urges other governments to create digital services teams Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: December 11th, 2019 Following a recent merger of Nova Scotia’s internal services and external services teams to create the Nova Scotia Digital Services team, Natasha Clarke has gotten the chance to oversee some of the already existing projects under the team’s purview as the province’s new chief digital officer. One of those projects was the creation of online applications for the Heating Assistance Rebate Program. The results of that project were felt immediately she said. More than 600 applications were processed on the first day that the online service launched; a total that took them an entire year under the paper-based version of the program. Clarke, whose been the CDO since June, attributed the success of this initiative to the fact that the team behind the program researched to ensure what they were putting out there was what people wanted. No matter how small the team, Natasha Clarke encourages all governments to create a digital services team. Credit: LinkedIn “This was a program that a few years ago was completely paper-based. It’s a $200 rebate for low-income Nova Scotians to help them with their home heating. And you can make all kinds of assumptions about low-income Nova Scotians or low-income seniors that they’re not going to use a digital service,” said Clarke. “But by using human-centered service design, by doing user research with folks that use this program, we were able to quickly sort of bust those myths. And not only that but design the service in a way that really made sense to them.” Being able to provide the services that citizens want should be the mandate that all digital services teams focus on said Clarke, and she encouraged all governments – no matter at what level or of what size – to go down that same path; whether or not they believe they have the resources and manpower for it. “It doesn’t have to be a big team. That’s how we started. It was a small team,” said Clarke. While she acknowledged that every government will have its strengths and its way of doing things, Clarke emphasized that one common strategy all public sector digital services teams should follow is to show their work. It could help future teams on their journeys down this path. “We were experimenting ourselves and trying things out and finding willing partners and then communicating the heck out of it,” explained Clarke. “Show your work in the open and demonstrate that this matters while at the same time having those strategic conversations with decision-makers so that they can see the benefits and they can see the impact that doing this can have.” One major impact that digital services can have – and a benefit that Clarke said she sees great value in – is the ability to deliver services easily and conveniently to those who live in rural areas and have a tough time accessing them. “We will be making sure… that we’re able to reach Nova Scotians and that we’re not leaving anyone behind,” said Clarke. “What this does is it opens the door to more access to services that perhaps was not available before in a more physical footprint.” She said that this was a big driver for Nova Scotia, as outside of Halifax, much of the province is extremely rural. According to 2016 data from Statista, almost half (42.6 per cent) of Nova Scotia’s population resides in rural areas. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Public Sector Nova Scotia, Nova Scotia Digital Services, NSDS, postmedia Cyber Security Today - Three email password scams to watch out for StatsCan backs off plans to collect personal data for spending analysis About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada