https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/cyber-security-today-data-breach-at-doordash-attacks-on-airbus-suppliers-and-possible-unpatchable-apple-devices/422298
Cyber Security Today – Data breach at DoorDash, attacks on Airbus suppliers and possible unpatchable Apple devices | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Privacy & Security Cyber Security Today – Data breach at DoorDash, attacks on Airbus suppliers and possible unpatchable Apple devices Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: September 30th, 2019 Data breach at DoorDash, attacks on Airbus suppliers and possible unpatchable Apple devices Welcome to Cyber Security Today. It’s Monday September 30th, I’m Howard Solomon, contributing reporter on cyber security for ITWorldCanada.com. The DoorDash food delivery app and Airbus, an aircraft manufacturer. You might think they don’t have a lot in common. Now they do. Both have been the victims of cyber attacks through their suppliers. On Friday DoorDash, which operates in 4,000 cities across the U.S. and Canada, said it had been hacked through a third-party service provider. It didn’t identify which company that was, but suppliers can be computer firms that host an application and data, or a supplier that provides monitoring services to DoorDash. It said the hacker could have accessed personal data on as many as 4.9 million subscribers, delivery personnel and merchants. How bad is it? Approximately 100,000 delivery people, called Dashers, had their driver’s license numbers stolen. For some Dashers and merchants, the hacker got the last four digits of their bank account number. For some consumers, they got the last four digits of their credit or debit cards. On top of that there were millions of names, email addresses, delivery addresses, order history, phone numbers stolen. DoorDash is urging those notified to change their passwords. By the way, this hack happened last May. The company only discovered it this month. As for Airbus, according to the French news agency AFP, in the last 12 months four of its parts suppliers have been the subjects of major attacks, including engine maker Rolls-Royce and other contractors. It isn’t clear how much data attackers got. One anonymous source said some stolen documents dealt with engines on a military plane Airbus makes. In January Airbus itself acknowledged there had been an “unauthorized access to data.” Aircraft component manufacturers, of course, are a great source of technology information. And reportedly one of them had a direct link to Airbus’s computer network. The lesson for companies from both of these incidents is to do a better job of overseeing the cyber security of suppliers. Firms may have to even audit the security of those suppliers, because third parties can be doorway into other firms. Meanwhile consumers have to ask tough questions of firms they deal with. Like, how come it took four months to discover a data breach? The security industry is in an uproar over a report someone has discovered a way to compromise a lot of iPhones, iPads, Apple TVs and Apple Watches. This would affect many devices except newer ones like the iPhone Xs and XR. Apparently this particular exploit, dubbed Checkm8, cannot be fixed by Apple with a software patch. And having a fingerprint or password lock may not be a defence. Before you panic, security company Malwarebytes points out a few things: First, so far, the only way to exploit this bug is if an attacker gets hold of your device. Second, if you encrypt all the data on your device you’d be safe — unless the attacker has time to install malware to defeat the encryption. So don’t let your Apple device out of your sight, use a fingerprint or password lock, and standby for more details. Finally, some big names including Microsoft and Mastercard have formed a group to help co-ordinate law enforcement and corporate efforts to recover funds for victims of cyber attacks. Called the CyberPeace Institute, it plans also to look into the sources of cyber attacks as well as urge countries to behave more responsibly on the Internet. It hopes to be a credible source of research into the impact of cyber attacks for policy makers That’s it for Cyber Security Today. Links to details about these stories can be found in the text version of each podcast at ITWorldCanada.com. That’s where you’ll also find my news stories aimed at businesses and cyber security professionals. Cyber Security Today can be heard on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts or add us to your Flash Briefing on your smart speaker. Thanks for listening. I’m Howard Solomon Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security cyber security today, podcasts Survey shows that Canadian women still don’t feel welcome by tech companies Largest ever Canadian venture deal worth $515 million secured by Newfoundland software company About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada