https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-3d-printed-ventilators-drones-yell-at-people-to-stay-indoors-banning-targeted-ads/428865
Hashtag Trending - 3D-printed ventilators; Drones yell at people to stay indoors; Banning targeted ads | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – 3D-printed ventilators; Drones yell at people to stay indoors; Banning targeted ads Staff @itworldca Published: March 24th, 2020 It’s the rise of 3D-printed ventilators, drones are being deployed and programmed to yell at people not practising social distancing, and a story about targeted ads blows up on Reddit. A TechCrunch story about hundreds of engineers coming together to design and produce an open-source ventilator using 3D-printed materials continues to make its rounds on social media. Ventilators are in short supply in several nations across the world as the spread of COVID-19 continues. The story goes on to say that the ventilator design will soon enter the validation process in Ireland. Hopes are that it serves as a stepping stone for adoption in other countries. The group, called the Open Source COVID19 Medical Supplies community, is also turning its attention to designs for other badly needed medical equipment like masks and sanitizers. News: Police in Multiple Countries Using Drones to Yell at People Going Outdoors from technology Despite public health officials recommending social distancing policies and governments outright banning large events to stop the spread of COVID-19, some people still aren’t listening. Enter the drones. Stories about police drones in various countries that monitor streets and issue stern reminders for people to stay at home continue to pop up on social media. One example comes from Spain, where Spanish authorities are using speaker-mounted drones to find and promptly yell at people still congregating in the streets. Additional reports have surfaced of similar tactics used in China and Italy. And lastly, a story from Wired about banning targeted ads entirely in the U.S. has exploded on Reddit with more than 21,000 upvotes and 1.5 thousand comments in less than 24 hours. In addition to describing a world where brands don’t follow you around for days after you order something from Amazon, the article goes on to highlight the mad scramble companies like Google and Facebook would be in as they seek new revenue streams. Can businesses function without targeted ads? Experts suggest yes, especially the big companies like Google and Facebook with their enormous user bases. But, the article concludes with a quote that notes one of the biggest changes we would notice if such a policy were to exist. It reads: “The thing that won’t exist is this weird anomaly where some advertising companies—which is what they are—are the biggest, most powerful companies on the planet.” That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Cisco commits $225 million to COVID-19 response Microsoft warns critical vulnerability in Windows already being exploited Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada