https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/b-c-privacy-commissioner-launches-awareness-campaign-for-firms/415265
B.C. privacy commissioner launches awareness campaign for firms | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Image from Shutterstock.com Privacy & Security B.C. privacy commissioner launches awareness campaign for firms Howard Solomon @HowardITWC Published: February 22nd, 2019 Why are Canadian businesses often caught violating customers’ privacy rights, not protecting personal data they hold and victimized by data breaches? One answer is they don’t know they have to follow provincial and federal privacy laws. It may be even worse. “Frankly, judging by some of the phone calls we get, some don’t even know there is privacy legislation,” says Michael McEvoy, British Columbia information and privacy commissioner. For these reasons McEvoy has announced his office has launched new programs to help the roughly 1 million firms, non-profits, doctor’s offices, trade unions and other organizations there understand their obligations under the provincial Personal Information Protection Act (PIPA). The campaign, largely aimed at small and medium-sized organizations, will include webinars, animated pop-up online videos, podcasts and guidance documents. It will be officially launched on March 7. New tools will be published on the first Wednesday of each month throughout 2019 on the OIPC website. Related Articles BC political parties criticized for disclosing personal information to Facebook The three main political parties in B.C. collect too much information from potential voters without getting proper consent and at times... February 7th, 2019 Howard Solomon @HowardITWC You don’t have to sacrifice privacy for security, says former Ontario privacy commissioner Ann Cavoukian spent more than 15 years as Ontario’s Information and Privacy Commissioner between 1997 and 2014, but her new... February 7th, 2018 Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs The idea for the campaign started when McEvoy looked at responses to a privacy self-assessment toolkit send randomly to B.C. businesses asking for details about their privacy management program. “Many of them didn’t really understand the most fundamental aspects under our personal information protection act. We also had the same sense from the kind of calls we receive from businesses. We field thousands of calls a year asking what their legal obligations are under the legislation. All of which pointed to the need for a comprehensive education program for businesses of all kinds.” This despite the fact that PIPA came into effect in 2004. So what does it say that 18 years later many B.C. businesses aren’t informed? Do firms think its just another government regulation? No, said McEvoy, but privacy hasn’t been “on their radar screens until recently.” “But I think business more and more are beginning to recognize that there’s an expectation on the part of their customers, on the part of the public, that the data they provide the businesses is going to be properly secured and protected, and treated in a privacy-focused way.” The campaign will start with animated webinars on the Office of the Information and Privacy Commission of B.C. site to inform consumers and employees of their basic obligations. They will walk viewers through the steps of developing a privacy management program, including how to write a privacy policy, how to keep records, how to respond to an individual’s request about what information an organization holds about them. The site will also have animated pop up videos explaining what is personal information and how to secure it. The podcasts will be fictional recreations of themes the OIPC has handled. Related Download Sponsor: CanadianCIO Cybersecurity Conversations with your Board – A Survival Guide A SURVIVAL GUIDE BY CLAUDIO SILVESTRI, VICE-PRESIDENT AND CIO, NAV CANADA Download Now Privacy & Security Government of British Columbia, privacy Cyber Security Today: Feb. 22, 2018 -- Fake news worries, upgrade these apps and don't get gassed Samsung Galaxy S10e, Galaxy S10, and Galaxy S10+ first impressions About Howard Solomon Currently a freelance writer, I'm the former editor of ITWorldCanada.com and Computing Canada. An IT journalist since 1997, I've written for several of ITWC's sister publications including ITBusiness.ca and Computer Dealer News. Before that I was a staff reporter at the Calgary Herald and the Brampton (Ont.) Daily Times. I can be reached at hsolomon [@] soloreporter.com Follow Follow @HowardITWC on Twitter Join Howard Solomon on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content COVID-19: Toronto mayor sparks debate on possible use of cellphone data for infection detection During a crisis, use and disclosure of personal information may be extended, ‘can be very broad’ says regulator ‘Being a cloud-enabled government is a very positive thing for BC’: Insightful chat with CJ Ritchie, CIO at the Government of British Columbia Paranoid privacy tool can jam your smart speaker’s microphone Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada