https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-paypal-going-after-traditional-banks-facebooks-continued-problems-chinas-dystopian-ranking-system/403821
Hashtag Trending - Paypal going after traditional banks, Facebook's continued problems, China's dystopian ranking system | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Paypal going after traditional banks, Facebook’s continued problems, China’s dystopian ranking system Mandy Kovacs @MandyVKovacs Published: April 10th, 2018 PayPal is moving closer to “mainstream banking”, Facebook suspends another data analytics firm for using tactics like Cambridge Analytica, and China is testing a social credit ranking system straight out of a Black Mirror episode. First up from Facebook is news that popular online payments company Paypal is quietly rolling out traditional bank features to some of its customers. The Wall Street Journal is reporting that the company is offering mainstream banking options like debit cards, withdrawing cash at ATMs, and direct deposits. Paypal does not have a US banking license, however, so it’s been partnering with smaller financial institutions to offer these services as a way to skirt the rules. The company’s chief operating officer Bill Ready says that this is for people who don’t have a bank account but still want to participate in the modern digital economy. Next up from Reddit is more Facebook news. We’ve been covering this almost every day for the last few weeks and new information is still popping up about this scandal. Now, Facebook has suspended another data analytics firm from its platform called CubeYou after CNBC found that it was collecting user information through quizzes just like Cambridge Analytica. CubeYou swears it was only collecting data for academic research, but that’s what they’ve all said. Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak has officially joined the Delete Facebook movement, yet another blow to Facebook’s credibility. Time will tell if the social media giant will recover. And last but not least from Reddit again is a terrifying dystopian ranking system currently underway in China. If anyone has seen British anthology series Black Mirror, you may recognize this concept. The Chinese government is testing out a vast ranking system that monitors the behaviour of its population and ranks people based on their “social credit”. Like traditional private credit scores, a person’s social score can move up and down depending on their behaviour. Things like smoking or bad driving will cause you to lose points, and the government has already started punishing people with bad scores. Nine million people with low scores have been blocked from buying tickets for domestic flights and three million have been barred from purchasing business-class train tickets. A bad score can also affect your internet speed, it can ban you or your children from the best schools or applying for the best jobs, and even ban you from nice hotels. Good scores, on the other hand, can speed up travel applications to places like Europe, book hotels for free, and get you more matches on dating websites. While you can be publicly shamed for having a bad score, a good score will get you discounts on bills, better interest rates at the bank, and even free gym memberships. This has been in pilot since 2014 and the country’s government is hoping it will be fully rolled out in 2020. Hashtag Trending is produced by the ITWC Podcast Network. If you enjoy Hashtag Trending, please be sure to give us a rating and a review on Amazon, Apple Podcasts, Google Play, or wherever else you get your podcasts from. Careers banking, Cambridge Analytica, China, data breach, Digital Economy, Facebook, FinTech, hashtag trending, paypal, podcasts, privacy, Social Media What Canadian developers really think: on AI, GDPR, net neutrality, and more Complaints up 73%, but Wireless Code breaches down during latter part of 2017, CCTS finds About Mandy Kovacs Mandy is a lineup editor at CTV News. A former staffer at IT World Canada, she's now contributing as a part-time podcast host on Hashtag Trending. She is a Carleton University journalism graduate with extensive experience in the B2B market. When not writing about tech, you can find her active on Twitter following political news and sports, and preparing for her future as a cat lady. Follow Follow @MandyVKovacs on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada