https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/microsoft-for-startups-launches-in-ottawa/426977
Microsoft for Startups launches in Ottawa | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Public Sector Microsoft for Startups launches in Ottawa Buckley Smith @BuckleySmith7 Published: February 7th, 2020 Microsoft has partnered up with Invest Ottawa and Bayview Yards to bring its program, Microsoft for Startups, to Canada’s capital. “The technology eco-system has yielded outstanding Canadian success stories for decades. We are incredibly proud to join forces with Invest Ottawa to help accelerate growth in our nation’s capital,” said Kevin Peesker, the president of Microsoft Canada, in a press release. “Innovative startups like MindBridge AI call Ottawa home because of the access to world-class talent and resources, and this collaboration with Invest Ottawa will help them continue to lift up under-represented voices in tech and drive more public sector startup innovation.” Related: Microsoft Canada president says startups should collaborate more, but ‘not to the point of giving up your secrets’ According to the company’s website, Microsoft for Startups helps eligible startups build and scale their companies, facilitating access to technical and business resources that often exceed the reach of early-stage companies. Invest Ottawa, an economic development agency for knowledge-based industries, will be collaborating with Microsoft for Startups on joint marketing strategies, onsite office hours for founders, webinars, and events. Additionally, Invest Ottawa also plans to use a startup showcase series to attract more startups to Microsoft’s program. “We are honoured to work with Microsoft and welcome their sponsorship of Invest Ottawa and Bayview Yards,” said Michael Tremblay, the president and chief executive officer of Invest Ottawa and Bayview Yards, in the press release. “Building directly on our Venture Development offering, the Microsoft for Startups program will create new capabilities for entrepreneurs, and facilitate access to new global markets, customers and investors. This will catalyze the scaleup and success of high-growth tech firms across our economy from healthtech to public safety and security, govtech, fintech, Information and Communications Technologies (ICT), and clean and connected communities.” Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Public Sector Bayview Yards, Invest Ottawa, Microsoft, Microsoft for Startups, postmedia Hashtag Trending - Google eats its vegetables, Visa explains Libra concerns, Spotify doubles down on podcasts ventureLAB announces first cohort of its Hardware Catalyst Initiative companies About Buckley Smith Staff writer for IT World Canada. Covering the world of technology as it applies to business. Buckley is an avid sports fan who loves travel, food, and music. Can be contacted at bsmith@itwc.ca or 416-290-2000. Follow Follow @BuckleySmith7 on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Chinese-based threat actor act fast when vulnerabilities found, warns FireEye TekSavvy hikes prices for all residential internet subscribers, and says it may need to do it again Hospitals are deploying virtual care apps in a matter of days, exposing them to more cyber attacks Huawei P40 Pro+ features 10x periscope camera and stunning quad-curved display Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada