https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-google-stadia-announced-federal-budget-2019-instagram-checkout/416175
Hashtag Trending – Google Stadia announced; federal budget 2019; Instagram Checkout | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Careers Hashtag Trending – Google Stadia announced; federal budget 2019; Instagram Checkout Brian Jackson @brianjjackson Published: March 20th, 2019 Google enters the video game business; Canada’s federal budget for 2019 is released; and now you can go shopping on Instagram. Trending on Google, Google announced that it’s launching a video game platform later this year. At the Game Developers Conference in San Francisco, Google debuted its new service with this overly dramatic video. The concept here is that you don’t need to buy a video game console, or a high-end computer. You just launch the game from the cloud and start playing on any screen. Google showed how you could be watching someone play a videogame on Youtube one moment, then launch into playing that game yourself the next. No installation required. Google says that its offices in Kitchener and Waterloo, Ontario played a role in developing the developer experience in Stadia, as well as the software for the controller. We don’t know much about what games you can play on the platform yet. But one of them will be Doom Eternal. And Google has created its own studio to develop games exclusive to the platform. Tune in at 4 pm today: @Bill_Morneau will share the details of #Budget2019 and how we are going forward with our plan of creating an economy that works for everyone. https://t.co/av5Xn3pacG — Navdeep Bains (@NavdeepSBains) March 19, 2019 Trending on Twitter, Canada’s federal budget was introduced in the House of Commons yesterday afternoon. I’m recording this before we see it, but you can visit ITWorldCanada.com for our coverage of the tech industry reaction to it. This budget is significant because it’s the last one the Liberal Party will deliver before the election this fall. We will be looking to see what they do for innovative firms with tax credit programs; if there is a commitment to the Global Skills Strategy; and if there is any progress on a national data strategy. Trending on LinkedIn, Instagram just became an ecommerce platform. The social network is introducing Checkout, a button that allows you to buy a product that’s tagged in an image. The initial rollout will involve more than 20 brands, including Nike, Adidas, H&M, Michael Kors, Prada, and Zara. Instagram says that your payment information won’t be shared with Facebook, its owner. It expects shopping revenue will be a significant part of its business. Careers federal budget, Google, hashtag trending, instagram, podcasts Cyber Security Today: Advice for fraud awareness month, ransomware hits aluminum producer and protect against spear phishing Norwegian aluminum maker recovering from ransomware attack About Brian Jackson Former editorial director of IT World Canada. Current research director at Info-Tech Follow Follow @brianjjackson on Twitter Join Brian Jackson on LinkedIn Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada