https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/montreal-wins-50-million-from-federal-government-in-smart-cities-challenge/418024
Montreal wins $50 million from federal government in Smart Cities Challenge | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Public Sector Montreal wins $50 million from federal government in Smart Cities Challenge Lynn Greiner @lynngr Published: May 15th, 2019 Montreal has a $50 million more budget to put towards its smart city plan today. Infrastructure Canada today announced the winners of its Smart Cities Challenge, a competition open to all Canadian municipalities, local or regional governments, and Indigenous communities (First Nations, Métis and Inuit). The Challenge had four key goals: to realize outcomes for residents, empower communities to innovate, forge new partnerships and networks, and then spread the benefit to all Canadians. Four prizes were available. Communities with populations up to 30,000 (per the 2016 census) were eligible to compete for $5 million (or could choose to aim for $10 or $50 million), two $10 million prizes were offered to communities of less than 500,000, and a single $50 million prize was up for grabs by a community of any size. More than 200 municipalities and groups participated in the first phase of the competition, completed last year. Each application was based around a Challenge Statement arrived at after consultation with the community: a single sentence that defined the outcome or outcomes the community aimed to achieve by implementing its smart cities proposal, outcomes that were measurable, ambitious, and achievable through the proposed use of data and connected technology. From the initial submissions, twenty finalists were selected, each of whom received a $250,000 grant to help it develop its video and final proposal through activities such as capacity building, engaging professional services, performing feasibility assessments, pilot projects, communications, community engagement, and research. An independent panel of judges evaluated the proposals against a checklist of detailed criteria. François-Philippe Champagne, minister of infrastructure and communities and his parliamentary secretary Marco Mendicino presented the awards in Ottawa. “This was really a Canadian endeavor,” Champagne told participants. “If I had one ask, I would say – be the ambassador of smart cities across the country, be the ambassador of the Smart Cities Challenge around the world. The world will be watching you as you bring your vision to reality and transform your communities. Make Canada proud. We’ll all be supporting you on this journey.” The $5 million prize went to the Town of Bridgewater, Nova Scotia for its proposal to reduce energy poverty among its citizens by making energy services universally available, affordable, clean, efficient, and secure. Nunavut Communities received $10 million for its life promotion approach to suicide prevention in a region where suicides occur at ten times the national average. The City of Guelph and Wellington County also received $10 million for their proposal to create a Circular Food Economy. The $50 million prize went to the City of Montréal for its proposal to improve mobility and access to food. “Every single community that participated in this challenge is a winner,” Champagne said. “Hopefully together we can change the world.” Watch Montreal’s proposal video: Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech, Public Sector Montreal, smart cities, Smart Cities Challenge Cyber Security Today: Watch out for fake news, human errors and why collect so much data? Seventeen countries sign promise to fight spread of online extremist content About Lynn Greiner Lynn Greiner has been interpreting tech for businesses for over 20 years and has worked in the industry as well as writing about it, giving her a unique perspective into the issues companies face. She has both IT credentials and a business degree. Follow Follow @lynngr on Twitter Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content A new Google Cloud Platform region to come to Toronto Three digital leaders examine the future of urban innovation Elevate: The smart city debate 6 takeaways from RealComm’s annual real estate technology event and why all tech leaders should care Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada