https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-walmarts-grocery-robots-las-vegas-avoids-cyber-attack-microsoft-to-catch-a-predator/425990
Hashtag Trending - Walmart's grocery robots; Las Vegas avoids cyber-attack; Microsoft to catch a predator | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Walmart’s grocery robots; Las Vegas avoids cyber-attack; Microsoft to catch a predator IT World Canada Staff @itworldca Published: January 14th, 2020 On this episode of Hashtag trending, we talk about Walmart’s grocery robot helpers, how Las Vegas avoided a cyber attack during CES, and what Microsoft’s newest solution to protect children online. People are worried about robots taking over their jobs, but what about seeing them as co-workers? That’s what Walmart wants to do at its future 20,000 square feet grocery location. Once built, little robots will be tasked with assembling customer’s orders. By banding robots and humans together, Walmart is looking to complete more than 800 grocery orders per hour. There’s no need to worry about a metal arm shoving groceries inside your car either as your paper bag will still be handed to you by a real live human. Trending on Reddit, the city of Las Vegas narrowly avoided a cataclysmic cyber attack thanks to vigilant IT staff. The attack, which is suspected to have been delivered through a malicious email, was promptly detected and thwarted. Still, several services needed to be taken offline for a little while to protect their integrity. Because of prompt action, Las Vegas officials said that no personal data was stolen. Security experts are still combing through the aftermath to ensure that the systems are safe. Lastly, trending on Reddit, a new Microsoft tool will help catch pedophiles in online chats. It scans the content between two parties and determines the likelihood of grooming behaviour. If it senses that the probability is high, it will usher off the conversation to a human reviewer. The human can then decide the next course of action. Given the unpredictable and often outrageous nature of online chat, many fear that the system will raise too many false flags. Once developed, the system will likely be deployed in gaming chats first as videogames are popular pastimes for the young and old alike. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts BlackBerry adds Cylance to QNX, announces partnerships with AWS, Damon, and Renovo CES 2020: Intel shows off Tiger Lake processors with 'double-digit performance gains' and new graphics Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada