https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-amazon-goes-on-hiring-spree-apple-slapped-with-massive-fine-invisible-censorship/428595
Hashtag Trending - Amazon goes on hiring spree; Apple slapped with massive fine; invisible censorship | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. IT Workplace Hashtag Trending – Amazon goes on hiring spree; Apple slapped with massive fine; invisible censorship Staff @itworldca Published: March 18th, 2020 Amazon goes on a hiring spree to keep up with online orders, Apple gets slapped with a $1.23 billion fine, and TikTok tells its moderators to suppress posts from “ugly people”. Amazon to hire 100,000 people to handle coronavirus-induced online shopping from technology Online orders are coming in fast, too fast for Amazon to keep up with. That’s why the e-commerce giant is looking to hire 100,000 people across the U.S. and temporarily raising pay by $2 an hour through the end of April for hourly employees. These are the employees that work at Amazon’s warehouses, delivery centres and Whole Foods grocery stores. According to reports, hourly workers in the U.K. and other European countries will get a similar raise. Redditors commenting on the story, some of whom claim to work for companies like FedEx and UPS, are noting how business has either remained the same or increased because of Amazon’s struggles trying to keep up with demand. France hits Apple with record €1.1 BILLION fine for monopoly practices from technology Moving on, a lot of chatter on social media about France’s national competition regulator slapping Apple with a record $1.23 billion fine for anti-competitive practices after nearly a decade of investigations. The competition regulator said in its decision that two of Apple’s wholesalers, Tech Data and Ingram Micro, were fined 63 million and 76 million euros respectively for unlawfully agreeing on prices. In its decision, the regular said “Apple and its two wholesalers have agreed not to compete with each other and to prevent distributors from competing with each other, thereby sterilizing the wholesale market for Apple products.” And lastly, social media is still buzzing about a story in The Intercept about TikTok moderators being told to suppress content made by users deemed too ugly, poor, or disabled for the platform, according to internal documents obtained by the publication. In addition to the suppression, the investigation piece highlights instances of political censorship as well, and various closed-door meetings with influencers where this type of practice was performed regularly. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Add us to your Alexa Flash Briefing or your Google Home daily briefing. I’m Alex Coop, thanks for listening. Related Download Sponsor: Epson Epson Business Solutions – Knowledge Hub With a proven track record of delivering cost-effective innovation to new and existing markets worldwide, Epson has become an industry leader in solutions that support success. Learn More IT Workplace hashtag trending, podcasts Bell, Rogers, Telus and others temporarily remove internet data caps Cyber Security Today - COVID-19 scams continue. Here's how to avoid them Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Cyber Security Today – A roundup of work from home online safety tips, and more Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Cyber Security Today – Still more COVID-19 scams, Tupperware hack and beware of free Best Buy USB sticks Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada