https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/calgary-dis-helen-wetherely-knight-a-2019-canadiancio-of-the-year-finalist/424463
Calgary DI's Helen Wetherely Knight | A 2019 CanadianCIO of the Year finalist | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Digital Transformation Leadership Calgary DI’s Helen Wetherely Knight | A 2019 CanadianCIO of the Year finalist Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: November 27th, 2019 This is one in a series of profiles of tech leaders named as a finalist for the 2019 ITAC CanadianCIO of Year Award. Knight was part of a Nov. 14 Town Hall discussion for finalists focused on the changing role of the CIO. The ITAC CanadianCIO of the Year winners will be announced Nov. 27 at the Ingenious Awards. Cloud computing is the furthest thing from hype. Canada’s small businesses and large enterprises have realized the opportunities available through the adoption of cloud architectures, and nonprofits have followed suit. These modernization efforts are fueled by donors’ increasing demands to see their donations make a measurable difference through outcome- and efficiency-related data. Many cloud-based systems are highly customizable and easily integrated with other tools and technologies, an attractive option for nonprofits running outdated legacy systems. The Calgary Drop-In Centre is a large emergency shelter with the capacity to sleep 1,000 people per night, and before Helen Wetherley Knight helmed the DI’s modernization efforts, only 70 of the 270 staff members had email addresses. Exaggerating the problem were the dated, donated computers, forcing the organization to invest thousands of hours into manually managing a database. The system was in disarray, and in turn, the stress rippled down to the 1,400 people it needed to serve daily. Listen on Demand: ITAC CanadianCIO of the Year Finalist Town Hall discussion on the Changing Role of the CIO. “The resource constraints in the nonprofit sector are enormous,” says Knight. With the help of solution providers, the DI set itself up with an Azure-based Microsoft Dynamics 365 system with some biometrics layered on top. Since shifting to the better system, the agency has been functioning as a more cohesive, more efficient unit. Its digital transformation strategy has returned 20 hours per week to staff members. In addition, the front-line leadership team has reaped back 1,460 hours annually. But for dozens of other nonprofits across the country, these types of results are difficult to obtain. Understanding where to inject digital innovations and making the most of those tools is an enormous challenge for nonprofits, says Knight. “One of the most surprising things I found when I started at the DI was that I was driving the overall strategy,” she says. “Operational efficiency is a significant part of my work because nonprofits have such noble visions … but the cost savings, the increase of quality and the increase of oversight across the organization, all comes from increased efficiencies. Knight says she plans on returning to a consulting role, something she had done for several years prior to joining the DI. Her first-hand experience driving a transformation in a nonprofit environment has encouraged her to be much more vocal about the need for CIOs to get involved in the nonprofit sector. “I’ve been doing a lot of advocacy with fellow CIOs to get them onto nonprofit boards because frankly. Most nonprofit boards are made up of CEOs and CFOs and we need way more CIOs to bridge this digital divide between technical efficiency and effectiveness,” says Knight. Related Download Sponsor: GoDaddy The SMB IT Reseller Landscape in Canada: A Time of Transition IT World Canada recently conducted a survey and interviews of Canadian resellers. The study, sponsored by GoDaddy, reveals that Canadian SMB resellers have taken great strides forward to adapt to the digital era. Read More Digital Transformation, Leadership Calgary, CanadianCIO, CIO roundtable participant State of Salesforce report says customer satisfaction and retention primary goals for AI investments CanadianCIO finalists say discipline and data literacy are critical skills for today’s CIOs About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content COVID-19 crisis could spur on digital transformation Inflection Point I An interview with AltaML’s managing director about AI’s role in shaping Calgary’s digital future No expectation of privacy in an IP address, Alberta judge rules Aurora Cannabis’ Darryl Vleeming | A 2019 CanadianCIO of the Year finalist Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada