https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-unsecured-data-exposes-top-carmakers-forbes-thinks-amazon-should-replace-libraries-is-thinner-actually-better/407537
Hashtag Trending: Car makers exposed; Should Amazon replace libraries?; is thinner better? | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Emerging Tech Hashtag Trending: Car makers exposed; Should Amazon replace libraries?; is thinner better? Alex Coop @ItsJustAlexCoop Published: August 3rd, 2018 A bunch of data belonging to car manufacturers gets exposed, Forbes thinks Amazon should replace libraries, and is our pursuit for thinner machines robbing us from better performance? Welcome to a special edition of Hashtag Trending! Today’s episode highlights some overlooked stories that were trending last month. Look for our usual format to return on Aug. 14. On LinkedIn – people have been chiming in about the latest security guffaw that exposed sensitive information belonging to more than 100 manufacturing companies, including GM, Toyota, Ford and Tesla. The information, according to the New York Times, was exposed on a publicly accessible server belonging to Level One Robotics, a company that provides industrial automation services. The exposed data was discovered by researchers earlier this month, and it was unclear whether anyone else had seen or downloaded the data, which included scanned driver’s licenses and passports on lower level employees, in addition to detailed blueprints and factory schematics. On Reddit – people are in an uproar after an article in Forbes magazine suggested all public libraries in the U.S. should be replaced with Amazon bookstores. The article, written by a professor of economics at LIU Post in New York, wrote that libraries “don’t have the same value they used to” and should be replaced permanently by Amazon book shops. This amazing idea, and by amazing I mean terrible, led to people sharing stories about their local libraries and the multiple services they provide in communities. As of this recording, the article can no longer be found on Forbes’ website. The lesson here? Library Twitter doesn’t mess around. And lastly, also on Reddit – An article from Motherboard about the shift away from desktop computers in favour of laptops, is making its way around. The story stemmed from a recent video by YouTuber Dave Lee, who demonstrated that the only way to achieve Apple’s touted performance speeds for the newest MacBook Pro, is by keeping it in a refrigerator. The article concluded that while thermal throttling isn’t unique to Apple, the pursuit of lighter, thinner laptops is a trend that is almost certainly driven by the tech giant and that it’s not going to stop anytime soon. Related Download Sponsor: EDC Create a Unique Selling Proposition for Your Global Market Register Now Emerging Tech Apple, automotive, data breach, data breaches, Forbes, hashtag trending, MacBook Pro Samsung reveals newest tablet: the Galaxy Tab S4 Canada watching for cyber threats to 2019 election, says government About Alex Coop Editorial director for IT World Canada and its sister publications, and former community reporter. Also a great pick up basketball player | acoop@itwc.ca Follow Follow @ItsJustAlexCoop on Twitter Website Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Hashtag Trending – Gates says US botched COVID-19 response; Snopes overwhelmed; Plague Inc. flips the script Hashtag Trending – 3D-printed ventilators; Drones yell at people to stay indoors; Banning targeted ads Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada