https://www.itworldcanada.com/article/hashtag-trending-google-pixels-night-sight-japans-cyber-illiterate-minister-apple-watch-gets-a-better-spotify-app/411919
Hashtag Trending: Google Pixel's Night Sight, Japan's cyber-illiterate minister, Apple Watch gets a better Spotify app | IT World Canada News Follow Main menu Skip to secondary content Menu CIO Security Cloud AI Research Events News Videos Podcasts Blogs More 2020 Vision Technicity 2019 Ingenious Awards 2019 Cyber Security Awareness Month CIO Census Last 48 Hours Celebrating 25 Years of CIO Leadership AI Directory Digital Transformation All Categories Slideshows 2019 IT Salary Calculator Blogger Opportunities CIO Security Perspectives Gartner Corner About Us Privacy Policy Digital Magazines Contact Us Subscribe OUCH! Free Content gets hurt by enabled Ad Blockers Please consider unblocking us or Subscribe in support of our great non-gated content. Opinion Hashtag Trending: Google Pixel’s Night Sight, Japan’s cyber-illiterate minister, Apple Watch gets a better Spotify app Tom Li @itworldca Published: November 16th, 2018 Trending on Google, Google Pixel phones now have Night Sight camera mode to take better night time photos. Night Sight was announced alongside the new Google Pixel 3 smartphones in October. This new low-light shooting mode merges a burst of photos together to form a clear, bright image. Then, it uses machine learning to balance the colors to make everything come to life. If you own a Google Pixel device, make sure to update through the Google Play Store and see the difference for yourself – it is tremendous. Trending on Reddit. A career in cybersecurity usually needs you to know how a computer works. Not so, apparently, for Japan’s Minister of Cybersecurity Yoshikata Sakurada. Responding to opposing legislators, Sakurada said he gives instructions to his aide so he doesn’t have to punch them into a computer himself. In a reply to a question about the power grid and malware, Sakurada commented that USBs are basically never used in utility systems, appearing to be unaware of what it is. His answers got a laugh out of the listening lawmakers, and his strange quotes were subsequently featured all over Japanese media. Trending on Product Hunt, Apple Watch now has an official Spotify app. You’d think that it would be a no-brainer, but Apple Watch users have waited years for tighter Spotify support. The new Spotify app lets users add songs to favorites, select songs from a recent playlist, and pair to a wireless speaker directly from the watch face. While its functions are still nowhere close to the app on your smartphone, it’s a huge step towards higher usability. That’s all the tech news that’s trending right now. Hashtag Trending is a part of the ITWC Podcast network. Last night Hashtag Trending was proud to win the gold at the Canadian Online Publishing Awards in the B2B division. A huge thank you to our listeners for turning in every day and helping us build the best daily tech news report in Canada. I’m your host Tom Li. Opinion hashtag trending, podcast BlackBerry makes largest acquisition ever in $1.4B purchase of AI firm Cylance Cisco expands its Catalyst portfolio, targets mid-market with 9200 switch About Tom Li As an avid technology enthusiast, Tom loves to fix, break, and talk about electronics. If you encounter him in the wild, please feed him with a CPU or two to keep him happy. Join Tom Li on LinkedIn Top marks from educators for Fujitsu’s document scanning solution Jake Ragusa, Technology Director for the Ascension Parish School Board, credits the Fujitsu fi-Series scanners with eliminating the need for a $2 million dollar expansion planned to deal with space issues. Read More Related Content Hashtag Trending – Hackers’ work interrupted; Zoom update removes Facebook code; Internet strain Hashtag Trending – Stern warning from Snowden; Zoom concerns; Amazon seeks donations Hashtag Trending – Gates says US botched COVID-19 response; Snopes overwhelmed; Plague Inc. flips the script Hashtag Trending – 3D-printed ventilators; Drones yell at people to stay indoors; Banning targeted ads Tweets by itworldca Follow Subscribe Resources CanadianCIO Digital Security CMO Digital CDN Magazine IT Salary Calculator LightningPR Webinars and Events Tech Research Partner Content IT World Canada Community About Us Contact Us Technology Videos IT News IT Blogs Mobility News Cloud Computing Technology Topics ITWC Talks ITWC Websites ITWC.ca Channel Daily News.com IT World Canada.com IT Business.ca Direction Informatique.com © 2020 IT World Canada