https://techcrunch.com/2020/03/27/attract-engage-and-retain-employees-in-the-new-remote-work-era/
Attract, engage and retain employees in the new remote-work era – TechCrunch Attract, engage and retain employees in the new remote-work era Irene DeNigris 10 hours Irene DeNigris Contributor Share on Twitter Irene DeNigris, chief people officer of iCIMS, has a passion for cultivating a highly engaged, high-performance culture. When looking for answers, where do people first turn? For many, it’s Google. During the first half of March, we saw Google searches for “work from home” reach a 12-month high, garnering at least 50% more search interest than the anticipated peak, which usually occurs within the first week of January. This number will continue to grow as outside circumstances evolve. This search behavior reflects the world around us. Today, employees and employers alike are grappling with the new norm — at least for the short-term — which is working remotely. While having a remote-ready model in place was once viewed as a competitive advantage to attract talent, it’s now a must-have to keep organizations afloat. With vacant positions costing organizations around $680 daily, the impact that interrupted recruiting efforts can have on a business’ bottom line is jarring. As such, HR professionals were early adopters of successful remote communication practices, learning lessons that can be applied across the business to successfully make personal connections without being in-person. Employers are doing all they can to address their existing employee base at this critical time, while also working hard to maintain their hiring efforts. Having the right technology in place to sustain work-from-home practices is more important now than ever before. There are four steps that employers can take to successfully integrate and adapt successful virtual hiring technologies into their business continuity plans, considering all outside circumstances, and without sacrificing their productivity and unique company culture. Prepare and plan. Employers have an obligation to provide their people with clear direction in times of disruption.