https://techcrunch.com/
TechCrunch – Startup and Technology News The Latest John Borthwick & Matt Hartman of betaworks discuss coronavirus adaptation strategies Mar 27, 2020 Jordan Crook Yesterday, I had the pleasure of hopping on Zoom with betaworks’ John Borthwick and Matt Hartman to discuss the tech world’s adaptation to this new locked-down world, the future of new med Rocket startup Skyrora shifts production to hand sanitizer and face masks for coronavirus response Mar 27, 2020 Darrell Etherington One of the newer companies attempting to join the rarified group of private space launch startups actually flying payloads to orbit has redirected its entire UK-based manufacturing capacity towards CO Duke University uses vaporized hydrogen peroxide to clean N95 face masks for reuse Mar 27, 2020 Jonathan Shieber With shortages of N95 face masks persisting nationwide, healthcare facilities are scrambling to find ways to clean and treat the masks for reuse to protect doctors and nurses most at risk of exposure Attract, engage and retain employees in the new remote-work era Mar 27, 2020 Irene DeNigris Having the right technology in place to sustain work-from-home practices is more important now than ever before. Trump orders GM to start ventilator production for COVID-19 amid contract dispute Mar 27, 2020 Kirsten Korosec President Donald Trump signed Friday a presidential directive ordering GM to produce ventilators and to prioritize federal contracts, just hours after the automaker announced plans to manufacture the We’ve come full rectangle: Polaroid is reborn out of The Impossible Project Mar 27, 2020 Devin Coldewey More than a decade after announcing that it would keep Polaroid's abandoned instant film alive, The Impossible Project has done the... improbable: It has officially become the brand it set out to save Attorney Sophie Alcorn answers readers’ immigration questions Mar 27, 2020 Danny Crichton Sophie Alcorn Natasha Mascarenhas We had a great time hosting noted immigration attorney Sophie Alcorn on a live conference call with Extra Crunch members earlier this week. Sophie writes our “Dear Sophie” column, where she answer The FDA just okayed multiple 15-minute blood tests to screen for coronavirus, but there are caveats Mar 27, 2020 Darrell Etherington On Thursday, the FDA amended their emergency policy around diagnostic testing for SARS-CoV-2, the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19. Following on a change made March 16, the agency opened the doo It looks like Brandon Middaugh is heading up the $1B Microsoft climate fund Mar 27, 2020 Jonathan Shieber Earlier this year, Microsoft made waves in the corporate community by coming out with one of the most ambitious and wide-ranging strategies to reduce carbon emissions from the company’s operatio When is it time to stop fundraising? Mar 27, 2020 Russ Heddleston There are times when, no matter how hard you try, you’re just not going to be able to close a deal. Now might be the perfect time to rethink your fundraising approach Mar 27, 2020 Russ Heddleston While there has been a drop in interest so far, there is still a lot of activity and VCs seem to still be reading pitch decks. SpaceX to deliver cargo to NASA’s lunar Gateway station using a new ‘Dragon XL’ spacecraft Mar 27, 2020 Darrell Etherington NASA has tapped SpaceX as the first provider of space-based logistics to deliver experiment materials, cargo and supplies to its lunar Gateway, the agency announced on Friday. This means SpaceX will b Daily Crunch: Clearstep’s chatbot offers in-depth COVID-19 screening Mar 27, 2020 Anthony Ha We look at an in-depth screener app for COVID-19, U.S. stocks take another tumble and Apple extends its free trial for Final Cut Pro and Logic Pro. Here’s your Daily Crunch for March 27, 2020. S Bird lays off about 30% of workforce amid COVID-19 pandemic Mar 27, 2020 Megan Rose Dickey Bird is the latest startup hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. Today, Bird laid off about 30% of its employees amid the uncertainty caused by the coronavirus, TechCrunch has learned. “The unprecedente Google sets aside $800M in ads and loans to help in COVID-19 fight Mar 27, 2020 Lucas Matney Google CEO Sundar Pichai announced Friday that his company would be donating more than $800 million in ad credits and loans to help government orgs and small businesses respond to the COVID-19 crisis. NYU makes face shield design for healthcare workers that can be built in under a minute available to all Mar 27, 2020 Darrell Etherington New York University is among the many academic, private and public institutions doing what it can to address the need for personal protective equipment (PPE) among healthcare workers across the world. Instacart shoppers are planning a nationwide strike to demand better safety protections and pay amid COVID-19 Mar 27, 2020 Megan Rose Dickey Instacart shoppers, led by the folks over at Gig Workers Collective, are planning a nationwide strike in protest of the company’s practices amid the COVID-19 pandemic, Vice first reported. Shopp House passes historic $2 trillion coronavirus economic rescue bill Mar 27, 2020 Taylor Hatmaker A massive bipartisan effort to provide relief to a U.S. economy on ice just leapt over its last major hurdle. On Friday, the House of Representatives passed a historic stimulus package known as the Co OneWeb to file for bankruptcy as effort to secure funding, including from investor SoftBank, falls through Mar 27, 2020 Darrell Etherington Broadband constellation satellite operator OneWeb will file for bankruptcy protection in the U.S., likely some time Friday, after attempts to secure new funding, including from existing investor SoftB Extra Crunch members get 20% off premium plans from calendar app Woven Mar 27, 2020 J.M. Donaldson Extra Crunch is excited to announce a new community perk from cross-platform calendar tool, Woven. Starting today, annual and two-year members of Extra Crunch can receive 20% off premium plans from Wo Load More