https://techcrunch.com/2020/03/27/extra-crunch-members-get-20-off-premium-plans-from-calendar-app-woven/
Extra Crunch members get 20% off premium plans from calendar app Woven – TechCrunch Extra Crunch members get 20% off premium plans from calendar app Woven J.M. Donaldson @1JMDonald / 15 hours Extra Crunch is excited to announce a new community perk from cross-platform calendar tool, Woven. Starting today, annual and two-year members of Extra Crunch can receive 20% off premium plans from Woven. You must be new to Woven to claim this offer. Built from the ground up for busy people, Woven comes stacked with powerful features designed to help you save time. Woven will give your calendar superpowers, including: Schedule complex events in seconds using powerful customizable templates Schedule one-off meetings with built-in scheduling links for personalized scheduling Publish public availability links to your website, email signature or anywhere on the web Gain insights into how you spend your time with Woven analytics You can sign up for Extra Crunch and claim this deal here. Extra Crunch is a membership program from TechCrunch that features weekly investor surveys, how-tos and interviews with experts on company building, analysis of IPOs and late-stage companies, an experience on TechCrunch.com that’s free of banner ads, discounts on TechCrunch events and several Partner Perks like the one mentioned in this article. We’re democratizing information for startups, and we’d love to have you join our community. Sign up for Extra Crunch here. New annual and two-year Extra Crunch members will receive details on how to claim the perk in the welcome email. The welcome email is sent after signing up for Extra Crunch. If you are already an annual or two-year Extra Crunch member, you will receive an email with the offer at some point over the next 24 hours. If you are currently a monthly Extra Crunch subscriber and want to upgrade to annual in order to claim this deal, head over to the “account” section on TechCrunch.com and click the “upgrade” button. This is one of more than a dozen Partner Perks we’ve launched for annual Extra Crunch members. Other community perks include a 20% discount on TechCrunch events, 25% off an annual Typeform Premium plan and an opportunity to claim $1,000 in AWS credits. For a full list of perks from partners, head here. If there are other community perks you want to see us add, please let us know by emailing travis@techcrunch.com. Sign up for an annual Extra Crunch membership today to claim this community perk. You can purchase an annual Extra Crunch membership here. Disclosure: This offer is provided as a partnership between TechCrunch and Woven, but it is not an endorsement from the TechCrunch editorial team. TechCrunch’s business operations remain separate to ensure editorial integrity.