https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/9/21130741/art-club
Oscars 2020: the complete list of winners - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Entertainment TV Shows Film Oscars 2020: Parasite sweeps, while Netflix loses out on pretty much everything Traditional studios beat out new kids like Netflix By Julia Alexander Feb 9, 2020, 11:28pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Oscars 2020: Parasite sweeps, while Netflix loses out on pretty much everything Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Kevin Winter/Getty Images Netflix headed into the 92nd Oscars with 24 nominations — the most of any studio — expecting to dominate award season’s biggest night the same way it’s dominated the entertainment industry. Instead, Netflix walked away with practically zilch. The streamer made out with just two awards: Best Documentary for American Factory (produced by President Barack and Michelle Obama’s production company) and Best Supporting Actress for Laura Dern. Its biggest films — The Irishman and The Two Popes — all went home empty-handed. Only just a week prior, Netflix’s studio chief Ted Sarandos rebuked claims that its lack of awards at previous award shows is part of a “backlash to a tech giant that is upending entertainment-industry business practices and threatening Hollywood power hierarchies,” as The New York Times wrote. “A pushback? Nobody can say that with a straight face,” Sarandos said. “We got 24 nominations, the most of any studio. Our films have been honored across the board.” “We got 24 nominations, the most of any studio” Netflix’s Oscar push has been aggressive. Some industry competitors have estimated that Netflix spent approximately $70 million on its Oscars campaign — much higher than what most studios spend. Netflix hasn’t shied away from its Oscar ambitions, but the company is trying to increase its film output and become a full-fledged studio in 2020. Award show prestige is important to the company — especially when it comes to drawing in the best talent, like Martin Scorsese. Netflix has proven over the last few years that it can secure the nominations, and even win from time-to-time, but getting the big wins are still a struggle. It’s clear that while Netflix moved from the kids’ table to sit with the adults, it’s still the odd one out right now. “I’m ready to drink tonight” Netflix’s night may not have gone as planned, but Parasite director Bong Joon-ho’s did. The director and his team walked away with a number of major awards, including Best Picture, Best Screenplay, Best International Feature Film, and Best Director. Bong used his time on stage to praise his fellow director nominees, including Martin Scorsese, who received a standing ovation during Bong’s speech. How’s he planning on celebrating his historic win? “I’m ready to drink tonight,” he joked onstage. It was a beautiful moment during an otherwise pretty standard show. Not even CEO Bob Iger could hide his boredom whenever the camera panned to him! Brad Pitt, Taika Waititi, Renée Zellweger, and Dern continued their season of award winnings, taking home respective prizes for Best Supporting Actor, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Actress, and Best Supporting Actress. 1917 and Ford v Ferrari both took home multiple awards for achieving excellence in technical categories like Best Editing and Best Sound Mixing. Elton John won the prize for Best Original Song for his work on Rocketman. Perhaps the biggest upset? Joker, which earned the most nominations for any individual movie, only secured two awards: Best Actor for Joaquin Phoenix and Best Original Score for Hildur Guðnadóttir. Although, depending on who you ask, maybe it’s not a total upset after all. The full list of Oscar winners can be read below. Best Picture: Ford v Ferrari The Irishman Jojo Rabbit Joker Little Women Marriage Story 1917 Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Parasite Lead Actor: Antonio Banderas, Pain and Glory Leonardo DiCaprio, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Adam Driver, Marriage Story Joaquin Phoenix, Joker Jonathan Pryce, The Two Popes Lead Actress: Cynthia Erivo, Harriet Scarlett Johansson, Marriage Story Saoirse Ronan, Little Women Charlize Theron, Bombshell Renee Zellweger, Judy Supporting Actor: Tom Hanks, A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood Anthony Hopkins, The Two Popes Al Pacino, The Irishman Joe Pesci, The Irishman Brad Pitt, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Supporting Actress: Kathy Bates, Richard Jewell Laura Dern, Marriage Story Scarlett Johannson, Jojo Rabbit Florence Pugh, Little Women Margot Robbie, Bombshell Director: Martin Scorsese, The Irishman Todd Phillips, Joker Sam Mendes, 1917 Quentin Tarantino, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Bong Joon Ho, Parasite Animated Feature Film How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World I Lost My Body Klaus Missing Link Toy Story 4 Animated Short: Dcera, Daria Kashcheeva Hair Love, Matthew A. Cherry Kitbull, Rosana Sullivan Memorable, Bruno Collet Sister, Siqi Song Adapted Screenplay: The Irishman, Steven Zaillian Jojo Rabbit, Taika Waititi Joker, Todd Phillips, Scott Silver Little Women, Greta Gerwig The Two Popes, Anthony McCarten Original Screenplay: Knives Out, Rian Johnson Marriage Story, Noah Baumbach 1917, Sam Mendes and Krysty Wilson-Cairns Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Quentin Tarantino Parasite, Bong Joon-ho, Jin Won Han Cinematography: The Irishman, Rodrigo Prieto Joker, Lawrence Sher The Lighthouse, Jarin Blaschke 1917, Roger Deakins Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Robert Richardson Best Documentary Feature: American Factory, Julia Rieichert, Steven Bognar The Cave, Feras Fayyad The Edge of Democracy, Petra Costa For Sama, Waad Al-Kateab, Edward Watts Honeyland, Tamara Kotevska, Ljubo Stefanov Best Documentary Short Subject: In the Absence Learning to Skateboard in a Warzone Life Overtakes Me St. Louis Superman Walk Run Cha-Cha Best Live Action Short Film: Brotherhood, Meryam Joobeur Nefta Football Club, Yves Piat The Neighbors’ Window, Marshall Curry Saria, Bryan Buckley A Sister, Delphine Girard Best Foreign Language Film: Corpus Christi, Jan Komasa Honeyland, Tamara Kotevska, Ljubo Stefanov Les Miserables, Ladj Ly Pain and Glory, Pedro Almodovar Parasite, Bong Joon Ho Film Editing: Ford v Ferrari, Michael McCusker, Andrew Buckland The Irishman, Thelma Schoonmaker Jojo Rabbit, Tom Eagles Joker, Jeff Groth Parasite, Jinmo Yang Sound Editing: Ford v Ferrari, Don Sylvester Joker, Alan Robert Murray 1917, Oliver Tarney, Rachel Tate Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Wylie Stateman Star Wars: The Rise of SkyWalker, Matthew Wood, David Acord Sound Mixing: Ad Astra Ford v Ferrari Joker 1917 Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Production Design: The Irishman, Bob Shaw and Regina Graves Jojo Rabbit, Ra Vincent and Nora Sopkova 1917, Dennis Gassner and Lee Sandales Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Barbara Ling and Nancy Haigh Parasite, Lee Ha-Jun and Cho Won Woo, Han Ga Ram, and Cho Hee Original Score: Joker, Hildur Guðnadóttir Little Women, Alexandre Desplat Marriage Story, Randy Newman 1917, Thomas Newman Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker, John Williams Original Song: “I Can’t Let You Throw Yourself Away,” Toy Story 4 “I’m Gonna Love Me Again,” Rocketman “I’m Standing With You,” Breakthrough “Into the Unknown,” Frozen 2 “Stand Up,” Harriet Makeup and Hair: Bombshell Joker Judy Maleficent: Mistress of Evil 1917 Costume Design: The Irishman, Sandy Powell, Christopher Peterson Jojo Rabbit, Mayes C. Rubeo Joker, Mark Bridges Little Women, Jacqueline Durran Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Arianne Phillips Visual Effects: Avengers: Endgame The Irishman 1917 The Lion King Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker Related Parasite wins Best Picture, making Oscar history Next Up In Film Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook