https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/27/21196335/chan-zuckerberg-initiative-commits-25-million-covid-19-therapeutics-accelerator
Chan Zuckerberg Initiative commits $25 million to a fund researching COVID-19 treatments - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Tech Health Chan Zuckerberg Initiative commits $25 million to a fund researching COVID-19 treatments New, 7 comments The Gates Foundation has committed $50 million to the fund By Jay Peters@jaypeters Mar 27, 2020, 7:30am EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Chan Zuckerberg Initiative commits $25 million to a fund researching COVID-19 treatments Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Johannes Simon/Getty Images The Chan Zuckerberg Initiative (CZI), Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s philanthropic arm, has committed $25 million to a research fund designed to help identify and develop treatments for the disease caused by the novel coronavirus, it announced today. CZI, managed by Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla Chan, is donating to the COVID-19 Therapeutics Accelerator, which will help coordinate research efforts to identify new drugs and treatments for the illness. The Accelerator is already backed by $125 million in commitments from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, health foundation Wellcome, and Mastercard’s Impact Fund, according a March 10th press release. The Gates Foundation has committed up to $50 million CZI says it will provide $20 million to the COVID-19 Therapeutics Accelerator and make another $5 million available “based on future needs.” The Gates Foundation and Wellcome each have committed up to $50 million, while Mastercard’s Impact Fund has committed up to $25 million. The COVID-19 Therapeutics Accelerator will work with the World Health Organization, organizations in both the public and private sectors, and “global regulatory and policy-setting institutions” to coordinate research efforts, according to the release. “We’re excited to partner with the Gates Foundation, Wellcome, and Mastercard to help the biomedical research community quickly identify, develop, and test treatments for COVID-19,” said Chan and Zuckerberg in a statement. “The Therapeutics Accelerator will enable researchers to quickly determine whether or not existing drugs have a potential benefit against COVID-19. We hope these coordinated efforts will help stop the spread of COVID-19 as well as provide shared, reusable strategies to respond to future pandemics.” CZI and the Chan Zuckerberg Biohub, which researches ways to cure and manage diseases, have already been working to help increase the number of COVID-19 tests in the San Francisco Bay Area. CZI said last week it is aiming to help the University of California, San Francisco support at least 1,000 tests per day “in the coming days.” The Gates Foundation is also working to increase testing, partnering with the University of Washington to offer at-home COVID-19 testing kits for people in the Seattle area. However, it’s not clear when that program will begin. The Gates Foundation’s commitment to the COVID-19 Therapeutics Accelerator comes in part from its up to $100 million commitment to COVID-19 response announced on February 5th. Related Mark Zuckerberg’s philanthropy groups work to bring at least 1,000 coronavirus tests per day to Bay Area Mark Zuckerberg’s philanthropy groups will fund a quadruple increase in Bay Area coronavirus testing The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is exploring at-home COVID-19 tests in Seattle In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Chan Zuckerberg Initiative commits $25 million to a fund researching COVID-19 treatments Google says disabling an online business website due to coronavirus should be a last resort View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook