https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/13/21179109/royal-caribbean-cruise-suspension-coronavirus-covid-19
Royal Caribbean suspends US cruise operations after national emergency declared - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Transportation Coronavirus Royal Caribbean suspends US cruise operations after national emergency declared A 30-day pause amid the coronavirus pandemic By Sean O'Kane@sokane1 Mar 13, 2020, 4:33pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Royal Caribbean suspends US cruise operations after national emergency declared Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Joe Burbank/Orlando Sentinel/Tribune News Service via Getty Images Royal Caribbean will suspend all cruises passing through the United States for at least 30 days as the country declares a national emergency over the novel coronavirus pandemic, the company announced on Friday. “Cruises that depart US ports before midnight tonight and international cruises will operate their scheduled itineraries,” the company tells The Verge. “US ships already at sea will finish their itineraries as planned.” The company joins Carnival Corporation in scaling back operations in order to try to slow the spread of the virus. Carnival announced on Thursday that it was shutting down its Princess Cruises line for two months after two of its ships became hotbeds for the novel coronavirus, leading to at least eight deaths and hundreds of cases. Norwegian Cruise Line has not announced any suspensions, and some of its sales managers were recently found to have been pushing coronavirus misinformation in order to convince customers to book upcoming cruises. Royal Caribbean, Carnival, and Norwegian collectively make up about around 70 percent of the global cruise market. “We are reaching out to our guests to help them work through this disruption to their vacations, and we are truly sorry for their inconvenience,” the company wrote in a statement. “We are also communicating with our crew to work out the issues this decision presents for them. We know this adds great stress to our guests, employees and crew, and we are working to minimize the disruption.” Cruise ships, much like airlines, have seen a drop in demand since the novel coronavirus outbreak grew into a pandemic in recent weeks. The Trump administration has even considered offering assistance to the industry, though it’s not clear what that action would look like. “We’re with them all the way, it’s a great business, and it’s a great US business, frankly,” President Trump said during a press conference on Friday. “It’s an industry that has been very badly impacted.” In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Royal Caribbean suspends US cruise operations after national emergency declared AMC and Regal to start capping movie theater attendance at 50 percent View all 322 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook