https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/21/21075647/us-wuhan-coronavirus-case-china-deaths-virus-illness
The US has its first case of the new Wuhan coronavirus  - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Health Coronavirus The US has its first case of the new Wuhan coronavirus The virus is spreading rapidly in China, and has already killed six people By Nicole Wetsman Jan 21, 2020, 2:19pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: The US has its first case of the new Wuhan coronavirus Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Ana Kova A case of the new virus spreading rapidly in China has been reported in a patient in Seattle, Washington, Reuters reports. The patient had recently returned from China, and is clinically healthy but still being monitored. This is the first US case of the virus, which was first detected in Wuhan, a city in central China in late December 2019. It has already sickened around 300 people and killed six. Despite the case report, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said during a press briefing that they believe the threat to the US remains low. The virus is currently known as 2019-nCoV. The designation indicates that it is a coronavirus, the family of viruses that also caused the SARS outbreak in 2003. That outbreak killed nearly 800 people. “It’s bringing back SARS flashbacks for me,” says Timothy Sheahan, a coronavirus expert and assistant professor at the University of North Carolina Gillings School of Global Public Health. The US patient flew into Seattle-Tacoma International Airport on January 15th and reported symptoms to his medical provider on Sunday, January 19th. The patient was familiar with the reports of the Wuhan virus and shared them with his provider, and the positive test for the coronavirus came back yesterday. He poses little risk to hospital staff or to the general public and is cooperating fully, the CDC said in its briefing. On January 17th, the CDC started enhanced health screenings at San Francisco International Airport, John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, and Los Angeles International Airport for passengers who flew from or connected through Wuhan. The agency will begin screening at Chicago O’Hare International Airport and Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport this week. Any flights from or connecting through Wuhan will also begin to be funneled to those airports. Health officials’ experience with SARS makes them more prepared to respond to threats from coronaviruses, Sheahan says. “People are aware. Before SARS, people had no idea this could happen. I think everyone is much more prepared now in 2020 than we were in 2002.” Coronaviruses are common in animals, and can evolve into forms that can be passed to and infect humans. The virus that caused SARS, for example, originated in bats. The World Health Organization has identified a wholesale seafood market in Wuhan as a possible source of the virus, but it also noted that “some laboratory-confirmed patients did not report visiting this market.” One of the most pressing questions about the new virus is how easily it spreads. Chinese health authorities said this week that there has been at least one confirmed case where the virus passed directly from one person to another without passing through an animal reservoir. “The key issue we need to understand is how easily or sustainably the virus is spread from human to human,” says Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases at the CDC. An expert panel at the World Health Organization is meeting on Wednesday, January 22nd to determine if it should declare a global public health emergency. Update January 21st, 3:08PM ET: This report was updated to include new information from the CDC. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline The US has its first case of the new Wuhan coronavirus View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook