https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/17/21184104/cheap-free-games-ps4-xbox-one-pc-switch-ios-android
Here’s a list of games you can grab for free or at a deep discount right now - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Good Deals Entertainment Here’s a list of games you can grab for free or at a deep discount right now New, 23 comments Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket By Taylor Lyles@TayNixster Updated Mar 24, 2020, 12:30pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Here’s a list of games you can grab for free or at a deep discount right now Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Raiser Games With all of the chaos going on in the world, now is a great time to spend some time relaxing with new games. Maybe you need a list of games to play during the next few weeks. Maybe you are looking to purchase some new games, but you’re tight on cash. Look no further! I’ve compiled a list of games that are either free or extremely cheap at the moment. Please note that I will be listing several games available on multiple platforms. However, I am only mentioning versions of the game that have these sweet deals available. We’ll update this story if any other great deals come along. Goat of Duty When people think of multiplayer shooters, games that usually come to mind include Battlefield and Call of Duty. But sometimes, you just get tired of fighting human NPCs. What if I told you there’s a game that offers a similar experience, but you play as a bunch of homicidal goats? Goat of Duty is a fast-paced multiplayer shooter where you are armed to the horns with lethal weapons. It’s equal parts fun and goofy, offering its own charm in a genre that has a lot of games to choose from. Where is it on sale? Steam (free) Mini Metro It may not be smart to use public transportation right now if you can avoid it, but if you miss taking the metro on your commute to work, Mini Metro just might fill the void. It’s a puzzle strategy game where your objective is to build an adequate rail transit network for your city that is continuously increasing in population. Where is it on sale? App Store (free), Google Play (Free) The Stanley Parable Sure, The Staley Parable is not the most exciting game on this list, but what it lacks in action and combat, it makes up for in excellent writing and humor. You play as Stanley, a white-collared worker who ends up exploring his strangely abandoned workplace. Throughout the game, a British narrator explains which path you take and how the story plays out. Still, the real strength of this game is you don’t have to listen to what the narrator says; you can choose your own path and stumble across a completely different ending. (The narrator even hilariously berates you if you do.) Where is it on sale? Epic Games Store (free) Treasure Adventure Game Sure, you can still go outside and enjoy Mother Nature, but if you’re an introvert like me and would rather explore the great virtual outdoors, then Treasure Adventure Game just might be what you need right now. It’s a 2D open-world platformer where you venture across the world, taking quests and finding treasure. You are equipped with nothing more than a hat, a parrot, and a boat that instantly appears after you come into contact with water. The game is being offered by GOG as part of an initiative to encourage people to stay indoors as much as possible. A handful of other games are available for free as well. Where is It on sale? GOG (free) Capcom Mega Bundle Humble Bundle has an excellent deal going on right now, featuring a ton of great games from Capcom. It’s a “Pay What You Want” bundle, so you can choose how much money you want to spend. At a minimum, it’s worth paying at least $11, which grants you a 50% discount to purchase Steam keys to Devil May Cry 5 and Resident Evil 2 remake. Where is it on sale? Humble Bundle ($1 to $20) Jak and Daxter Bundle Jak and Daxter: The Precursor Legacy was one of the main reasons why I begged my mother to buy me a PlayStation 2. I am a huge fan of the series and will revisit these games whenever I have the time. It’s one of the few Sony platformers that has evolved with the industry, evolving from a collect-a-thon into an open-world action-focused platformer. For $20 you can obtain the entire Jak and Daxter trilogy as well as its spinoff title, Jak X: Combat Racing. If you are a PS4 owner, all four of these games will provide you with a ton of hours of content to keep you busy. Where is it on sale? PlayStation Store ($19.99) Life is Strange I love the Life is Strange series and have played through the games multiple times. Aside from the strong storytelling, I am enamored by the first game’s characters (p.s. Chloe Price is my favorite), setting (the serene Arcadia Bay), and the truly beautiful soundtrack, which captures just the right emotion during certain parts of the game. You can pick up the complete season for the first game, which includes all five episodes, for under $5 on the Xbox digital store, which is practically giving the game away. If you are on the fence about whether you’ll enjoy the game, the first episode is free to get your feet wet. Where is it on sale? Microsoft Store ($3.99) Space Junkies Okay, I know Half-Life: Alyx is out, but if you are looking for a fun VR multiplayer game, might I suggest picking up Space Junkies? It’s a fast-paced VR arcade shooter that reminds me of great first-person shooters like Halo and Quake but offers its own spin. It’s a surreal experience with fast-paced action and detailed weapon customization. Where is it on sale? Steam ($4.99) Sims 4 The Sims celebrated its 20th anniversary last month. Throughout the last 20 years, The Sims has been adored by many, thanks to its laid-back, open-ended gameplay. You can create your own stories and dictate how your Sims live their life; from raising families, to falling in love, among other things. Alongside the base game, EA has released a slew of expansion packs that offer new content ranging from in-game items to new career paths, and even to pets for your Sims. Where is it on sale? Base game: Microsoft Store ($9.99) Dragon Quest III: The Seeds of Salvation While there are no first-party Nintendo games currently on sale on the Nintendo eShop, Square Enix’s Dragon Quest III: The Seeds of Salvation should be on your radar to pick up. Sure, it’s not the same level of gaming “comfort food” as Dragon Quest XI, but Dragon Quest III Is a fantastic JRPG that’s well worth your time. Compared to its predecessors, Dragon Quest III has aged fairly well for a game released nearly 30 years ago, thanks to a robust class system and a stellar soundtrack. Where is it on sale? Nintendo eShop ($9.99) Resident Evil 3 remake demo and Project Resistance open beta As an added bonus, I wanted to let you all know that a demo for the Resident Evil 3 remake is now available. The open beta for the game’s online multiplayer mode, Project Resistance, is slated to launch on March 27th. Both will be available to download on the PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Steam, and they are great opportunities for fans to get a glimpse at what they’ll have to offer ahead of their April 3rd release date. Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy. Update March 19th, 11:32AM ET: This story has been updated to include Capcom Mega Bundle, Goat of Duty, Mini Metro, and Treasure Adventure Game. Update March 23rd, 10AM ET: This story has been updated to include The Stanley Parable and remove Super Bit Blaster XL. Update March 24th 12:30PM ET: This story has been updated to include Dragon Quest III: The Seeds of Salvation and Jak and Daxter Bundle and remove Alto’s Adventure, Alto’s Odyssey, and Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle. Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook