https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/26/21082520/motorola-razr-presale-screen-bump-lumps-water-protector-caution
Motorola on the Razr’s folding screen: ‘bumps and lumps are normal’ - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech Motorola Motorola on the Razr’s folding screen: ‘bumps and lumps are normal’ New, 39 comments Pre-sale begins today By Dieter Bohn@backlon Jan 26, 2020, 2:01pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Motorola on the Razr’s folding screen: ‘bumps and lumps are normal’ Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Today’s the day that the Motorola Razr is available for pre-sale for $1499, exclusively on Verizon. Motorola originally said that it should begin shipping on February 6th, but it looks like it’s already backed up to the 14th on Verizon. Alongside the pre-order launch, Motorola has posted a series of videos on its YouTube channel that are somewhere between brief ads and how-tos for the folding phone. And as you might have guessed from the headline, “Caring for razr” caught our eye. In it, Motorola runs through the basics of what you need to know if you have a phone with a plastic folding screen. We thought we knew most of them already based on our experience with the Galaxy Fold, but Motorola’s video has one more thing to think about: “Screen is made to bend; bumps and lumps are normal.” With the Galaxy Fold, “bumps and lumps” ended up being the first harbingers of a catastrophic screen failure on our review unit. Apparently that’s not going to be the case with the Razr. There are lots of ways to build a hinge for a folding plastic screen, and Motorola apparently opted for a design that allows for a little more flex than the original Fold design did. It’s also able to close completely flat. Because of that plastic material, the screen is likely to have some kind of crease — though we weren’t really able to see much of one in our original hands-on. We’ll obviously need to review the phone in full before we can say ourselves whether the screen has a notable crease, bumps, or lumps. As with the Galaxy Fold, there are some Gremlins-esque rules to worry about: don’t get it too wet and if you do, dry it off quickly with a soft towel; keep it away from sharp objects; and close it before you put it in your pocket. That last rule, “close phone before putting in pocket or purse,” is a clear sign that the company knows the screen is fragile. It also explicitly warns users to not use a screen protector. As with the Galaxy Fold, it seems likely that the adhesive on most screen protectors would be damaging to the screen. At the launch, Motorola executives were incredibly confident about the screen’s durability for users. One executive specifically said “We’re not going to go out there and say, ‘consumers should be cautious of how they use the phone.’” Instead, it looks like a little caution is warranted. Related Motorola Razr review: folding flip phone flops Notably, the Razr is set to become available right around the time of Samsung’s Galaxy Unpacked event on February 11th. It’s widely rumored to be released the Galaxy Z Flip, a direct competitor to the Razr. A more recent rumor hinted that the Z Flip may have an “ultra thin” glass display. The other videos that Motorola has posted so far are more straight-forward overviews of the phone, though one seems to indicate that users will need to go to a Verizon carrier store in order to activate the eSIM. There are a few other videos on the channel but one that might be of interest is the big pile of camera features Motorola is building into the Razr, including a Cinemagraph mode that looks pretty fun: Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook