https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/3/21047275/art-club
Apple sues security vendor for DMCA violations - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Apple Policy Tech Apple sues security vendor for DMCA violations New, 6 comments New accusations in an old case By Russell Brandom Jan 3, 2020, 12:18pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Apple sues security vendor for DMCA violations Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Apple is suing an iOS virtualization vendor called Corellium for trafficking under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA). Apple initially sued the company for copyright infringement in August, alleging that Corellium’s virtualization of iOS was violating Apple’s ownership of the code. The more recent filing expands the case, alleging that Corellium’s sale of the virtualization software counts as trafficking in copyright-protected goods. “Corellium’s business is based entirely on commercializing the illegal replication of the copyrighted operating system and applications that run on Apple’s iPhone, iPad, and other Apple devices,” Apple’s revised complaint alleges. “Corellium simply copies everything: the code, the graphical user interface, the icons—all of it, in exacting detail...providing its users with the tools to do the same.” “Corellium simply copies everything.” The software in question allows users to run a facsimile of iOS in a controlled desktop environment. With no conventional connectivity, the program cannot be used as a phone, but it allows researchers to examine how specific software performs on iOS in minute detail. It is particularly useful when researching malware, and it was most recently used to uncover surveillance-related protocols in the United Arab Emirates’ ToTok app. In a statement after the filing, Corellium described the motion as part of a broader crackdown against jailbreaking by Apple. “Apple is using this case as a trial balloon in a new angle to crack down on jailbreaking,” said Corellium CEO Amanda Gorton. “Across the industry, developers and researchers rely on jailbreaks to test the security of both their own apps and third-party apps – testing which cannot be done without a jailbroken device.... Not only do researchers and developers rely on jailbreaking to protect end users, but Apple itself has directly benefited from the jailbreak community in a number of ways.” Apple declined to comment. Consumer jailbreaking was widespread in early versions of iOS, but it has declined significantly in recent years, and some of the most prominent jailbreak-reliant app sources have closed down as a result. The most common way of installing non-authorized software is now through Apple’s enterprise certificate system, which leaves the basic architecture of iOS intact. Still, there’s significant competition for finding gaps in Apple’s software control systems, most recently with a bootrom exploit called Checkm8 that was released publicly in September. Correction: An earlier version of this piece stated that Apple had filed charges against Corellium; in fact, Apple is suing the company in civil court. The Verge regrets the error. Next Up In Policy Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook