https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21051789/art-club
Royole’s Mirage smart speaker has a wraparound touch display - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News Royole made a wraparound touch display for a smart speaker New, 3 comments I hope it has cool visualizers By Jay Peters@jaypeters Jan 6, 2020, 1:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Royole made a wraparound touch display for a smart speaker Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Royole Today at CES, Royole, which is known for its flexible screens and making the first foldable phone, debuted a new display that wraps around the outside of a smart speaker. The speaker itself, made by Cleer using Royole’s display, is called the Mirage Smart Speaker and has an 8-inch AMOLED “fully flexible” touch display that appears to cover most, if not all, of the body of the device. I can envision how this could, in theory, give you another way to skip songs or adjust the volume. Instead of tapping on controls on the top of the device, perhaps you could just touch the screen on the body of the speaker. And based on the press images, it seems like the screen might be used for some cool-looking visualizers. That wraparound display will come at a price, though: Royole says the Mirage will be available in Q2 for an eye-watering $899. Image: Royole It’s unclear how good of a speaker you’ll get for that money. Royole says the Mirage is equipped with three “full-range drivers” and a “passive bass radiator,” but we’ll have to hear the speaker for ourselves to know how good it sounds. Royole also says the speaker is equipped with Amazon Alexa and two far-field mics to pick up your voice. The Mirage also has a 5MP camera. It’s not clear what that camera might be used for, though Royole says it has a “physical mute switch,” so it seems you’ll be able to cover the camera if you’d like. Royole is also announcing RoWrite 2, a redesigned version of its “smart notebook” that pairs with a mobile app to let you save and share notes. The original RoWrite looked like a black leather folio, but the RoWrite 2 looks sleeker and comes in a nice light brown color. Royole says the RoWrite 2 is 40 percent lighter than its predecessor and has a longer battery life — though it’s unclear how much more battery life. An Amazon UK page for the first RoWrite says it got eight hours of battery life. Image: Royole Royole says the RoWrite 2 will be available globally in March for $129. Related The world’s first foldable phone is charmingly awful We tried the world’s first folding phone, and it actually works Correction January 17th: Cleer makes the Mirage smart speaker, not Royole, as this article initially stated. Royole only provides the display. At CES 2020, Royole published an announcement about the smart speaker that made no reference to Cleer and implied that the speaker was made by Royole itself. A representative for Cleer contacted us 10 days after publication to note Cleer’s involvement. The speaker’s “idea, industrial design, [and] user interface” all come from Cleer, the representative said. Cleer presented the speaker at CES 2019 as well, however it did not mention Royole’s involvement at the time. Royole did not respond to multiple phone calls or an emailed request for clarification. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Royole made a wraparound touch display for a smart speaker I want a smart visor to block out the sun because I lose all my sunglasses View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook