https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/3/21047576/segway-ninebot-escooter-air-t15-t60-ces-2020
Segway-Ninebot unveils an electric kick scooter with cruise control - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Transportation CES 2020 News Segway-Ninebot unveils an electric kick scooter with cruise control New, 5 comments It’s foldable, too By Sean O'Kane@sokane1 Jan 3, 2020, 9:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Segway-Ninebot unveils an electric kick scooter with cruise control Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Images: Segway-Ninebot Segway-Ninebot has unveiled a handful of new electric kick scooters ahead of next week’s annual Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, including one that the company claims is the “most compact, lightweight, and energy-efficient kick scooter ever introduced to navigate a city environment.” That new $699 e-scooter, called the Air T15, is different from the ones that Segway-Ninebot provides to the e-scooter-sharing services around the world in that it doesn’t have a throttle. Instead, Segway-Ninebot says riders will simply kick the Air T15 along, and the e-scooter will instantly calculate “the friction and condition of the road and automatically adjusts your speed so you can maintain a constant rate of travel.” Speeding up will be as simple as giving the pavement a few more kicks, while slowing down will be managed by tapping on the rear wheel brake. In other words, it’s like an electric scooter with cruise control. Segway-Ninebot claims it’s ultra compact and energy-efficient Segway-Ninebot is also promising portability with the Air T15. To that end, the scooter folds up with one touch of a button into a nearly flat structure. It does weigh 22 pounds, which is not light, but that is half the weight of Boosted’s rugged electric scooter. The Air T15 is powered by a 300-watt hub motor that will get the scooter up to a top speed of 12.4 miles per hour, even on inclines of up to 15 percent. The scooter can regenerate energy back into the battery during braking, which helps squeeze out a range of a little more than nine miles. It also has an integrated display in the handlebars. Grid View Segway-Ninebot isn’t just unveiling the Air T15 next week. There’s another kick scooter called the T60, which the company calls “a revolutionary product,” referring to it as a “roboscooter.” The T60 has a “reverse tricycle chassis” and says the vehicle is made for global scooter-sharing service providers. It’s not clear what will make it a “roboscooter,” though, as the company didn’t release any more specifics. Segway-Ninebot will also show off a new version of its popular Max e-scooter, which it says is tailor-made for “the challenges of an urban fleet.” That means it will have bigger wheels, cables that are hidden away to protect them from the elements, and other ruggedized features that the company says will make the e-scooter easier and more stable to ride. The new Max will also have a swappable battery, which would make it easier to recharge without making people take them home or to an overnight facility to be plugged in. There’s a slew of other non-scooter vehicles, too. Last December, Segway-Ninebot announced that it would show off the company’s first electric motor scooter and moped at CES 2020. And just today, the company announced that it will also debut the S-Pod, an egg-shaped self-balancing wheelchair at next week’s show. Update January 3rd, 12:29PM ET: Segway-Ninebot has clarified that the Air T15 scooter will cost $699, not $799, as the company’s press release and this article originally stated. The article has been updated to reflect this. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Segway-Ninebot unveils an electric kick scooter with cruise control Kohler puts an Alexa-enabled smart speaker in a showerhead View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook