https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21052003/sony-ces-2020-ps5-logo-vision-s-concept-electric-car-supercut
Watch Sony unveil its Vision-S concept car and reveal the new PS5 logo - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Featured Videos Entertainment Watch Sony unveil its Vision-S concept car and reveal the new PS5 logo New, 1 comment A PS5 logo reveal and a Sony concept car By Nick Statt@nickstatt Jan 6, 2020, 9:42pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Watch Sony unveil its Vision-S concept car and reveal the new PS5 logo Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Sony’s CES 2020 press conference was a brief one, but it did have some interesting news. The company revealed the PlayStation 5 (aka the PS5) logo for the first time, although we didn’t get to see what the next-gen game console will look like quite yet. The company also shared some new sales milestones for its existing PS4 platform and its PSVR virtual reality headset. Sony also revealed a first for the Japanese consumer electronics giant: an electric car called the Vision-S. While it’s technically a concept car — it doesn’t sound as if Sony has any intention of mass-producing the vehicle — it does show off Sony’s penchant for intriguing, futuristic industrial design. Related Sony surprises with an electric concept car called the Vision-S Sony reveals PlayStation 5 logo and shares PSVR sales milestone The automobile has 33 sensors for monitoring both the inside and outside the car, “immersive” audio, widescreen displays, a panoramic screen, and always-on connectivity, according to Sony. Technically, the car was built in partnership with auto manufacturer Magna, and it’s filled with gear from companies like BlackBerry and Bosch, so it’s not solely packed with Sony technologies. We don’t have much else to go on regarding Sony’s plans for the car, but it’s a physical product here on the ground in Las Vegas, and it “embodies our contribution to the future of mobility and contains a variety of Sony’s technologies,” Sony CEO Kenichiro Yoshida told the crowd at CES. The Verge on YouTube Exclusive first looks at new tech, reviews, and shows like Processor with Dieter Bohn. Subscribe! In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Watch Sony unveil its Vision-S concept car and reveal the new PS5 logo Roland’s new hardware is a ‘plug and play’ mini studio for smartphone vloggers View all 176 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook