https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/13/21179003/amc-theaters-coronavirus-movie-attendance-tickets-new-release-delays
AMC and Regal to start capping movie theater attendance at 50 percent - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Business Entertainment Tech AMC and Regal to start capping movie theater attendance at 50 percent New, 13 comments The theater chain is preparing for drastic drops in attendance By Nick Statt@nickstatt Mar 13, 2020, 4:18pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: AMC and Regal to start capping movie theater attendance at 50 percent Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email wAMC has emerged as the first US movie theater chain to respond to the ongoing novel coronavirus pandemic, with plans to reduce auditorium attendance by 50 percent of the standard level to promote social distancing, Deadline reports. The chain, the largest in the country, will now only sell half the number of tickets per theater that it normally does, and any theater with more than 500 seats will be automatically capped at a max of 250 people. AMC is also having its theaters comply with local and federal restrictions on large gatherings and limiting ticket availability and screenings in certain auditoriums as a result. “We are facilitating the ‘social distance’ between guests.” “The health and safety of our guests and theatre teams are of the utmost importance to AMC. Therefore, AMC is proactively taking action to cut in half the number of tickets that we will make available at all our US theatres,” said Adam Aron, the AMC Theaters chief executive, in a statement. “With this action, who still want to see movies on a big screen.” Following AMC’s announcement, competitor Regal Cinemas said it too was “reduced auditorium capacity by 50 percent and are complying, where applicable, with state mandates on social gathering limits,” according to Slashfilm. Update: Regal Cinemas is also cutting its seating capacity by half due to the coronavirus. https://t.co/BBqgrCGHGL pic.twitter.com/8NSZLt6SYm — Peter Sciretta (@slashfilm) March 13, 2020 The theater industry is far from the only US entertainment sector seeing a hit due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. Production studios and distribution companies have begun delaying the releases of new films, including high-profile releases like Disney’s Mulan and the new James Bond film No Time to Die, out of fear that a severe drop in theater attendance will tank the box office success of big-budget projects. If future releases continue to get delayed, it may lead to even steeper drop-offs in attendance and potential partial or full movie theater closures. The New York Times reported on Friday that Netflix has halted production on all TV series and films for the next two weeks. And late-night talk shows like NBC’s The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon and Late Night With Seth Meyers also suspended the taping of new episodes entirely, having briefly said they would try taping without a live audience, through the rest of the month. Update March 13th, 6:21PM ET: Added details about Regal Cinemas following AMC Theaters in reducing theater attendance by half. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline AMC and Regal to start capping movie theater attendance at 50 percent Coronavirus is taking a big bite out of public transportation ridership in the US View all 322 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook