https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21048496/art-club
Acer is launching three new Predator monitors, including a giant 55-inch model - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Tech Acer is launching three new Predator monitors, including a giant 55-inch model New, 22 comments It’s a TV-sized monitor for your PC games By Jay Peters@jaypeters Jan 5, 2020, 5:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Acer is launching three new Predator monitors, including a giant 55-inch model Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Acer Predator X55 Image: Acer Acer is announcing three new Predator monitors at CES 2020 today, and that includes a massive, 55-inch 4K OLED model. The giant Predator CG552K is a 4K OLED panel with a 120Hz refresh rate, support for Nvidia’s G-Sync, and support for variable refresh rate via HDMI. Essentially, it’s a TV-sized gaming monitor, and the idea is that it will offer fast refresh rates and lower response times that most televisions can’t, in effect offering a much more immersive and responsive PC gaming experience. It’s similar to Alienware’s 55-inch OLED display that was announced last August, and both follow the introduction of Nvidia’s Big Format Gaming Display standard first announced at CES 2018 that led to the launch of the HP Omen X Emperium 65 early last year. Massive OLED gaming monitors are officially here, but they’re expensive The Predator CG552X is huge, but it’s not even the biggest option on the market. HP’s Omen X is 10 inches larger, and it also has an even higher refresh rate of 144Hz. My colleague Dan Seifert said in his review that the Omen X 65 was great for playing games, but you’ll still need a high-end PC if you really want to take advantage of it. It seems likely that’s the case for the Predator CG552K as well. But if you really want to integrate one of these giant monitors into your gaming setup, they’re pretty expensive on their own. The Omen X 65 costs $4,999, Alienware’s 55-inch monitor costs $3,999, and the Predator CG552K will cost $2,999 when it launches in Q3 in North America. Acer also announced two smaller monitors. The new Predator X32 has a 32-inch IPS mini LED display with a UHD resolution, Nvidia’s G-Sync, a refresh rate of up to 144Hz, up to 1,440 nits of brightness, and a wide viewing angle of up to 178 degrees. It’s also VESA DisplayHDR 1400 certified, the highest level of certification possible, meaning that it reaches a brightness of at least 1,400 nits, supports wide color gamut, and dims at the pixel level. The Predator X32. Image: Acer Basically, if Acer’s specs are accurate, the Predator X32 should look pretty good at many viewing angles, and because of that, Acer is positioning the monitor as good for both gaming and making videos. That makes sense, as many streamers are also content creators. The great-looking specs will come at a price, though, as Acer says the Predator X32 starts at $3,599 when it’s available in Q2 in North America. Acer is also announcing the new Predator X38, which has a 37.5-inch UWQHD+ curved display, supports Nvidia G-Sync, and gets up to a speedy 175Hz refresh rate when overclocked. The Predator X38 is also pricey, costing $2,399 when it’s available in North America this April. The Predator X38. Image: Acer In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Acer is launching three new Predator monitors, including a giant 55-inch model Here’s Lenovo’s first eGPU enclosure and a ‘gaming laptop’ to go with it View all 176 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook