https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/11/21175398/overwatch-league-games-canceled-coronavirus-april-march
Blizzard cancels all Overwatch League events in March and April - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Science Entertainment Blizzard cancels all Overwatch League events in March and April New, 3 comments Another big blow for the esports league By Andrew Webster Mar 11, 2020, 4:16pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Blizzard cancels all Overwatch League events in March and April Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo: Robert Paul for Blizzard Entertainment. The Overwatch League is going on hiatus amid the novel coronavirus pandemic. Today, Blizzard announced that the league was canceling all events scheduled for March and April. The league says it’s still working on determining when and where those games will be made up in the future. “We are working hand-in-hand with our teams to see that all matches are played when it’s safe and logistically feasible, staying as close to our originally planned schedule as possible,” the league said in a statement. “We are considering the various options available to esports in this effort, so that all teams — including those previously impacted by scheduling changes in China — can get back to doing what they do best.” “We discussed every possible scenario.” The canceled games include matches scheduled for Florida, Toronto, San Francisco, Atlanta, London, Dallas, Washington, Boston, and Paris. “We discussed every possible scenario, along with all preventative measures we could take to save this event,” the San Francisco Shock said in a statement. “In the end, player safety and the health of our fans are paramount and unless we were convinced that we could ensure both, we couldn’t in good conscience go forward with the weekend event.” The league had previously canceled all games set to take place in China and eventually moved them to South Korea before subsequently canceling those as well. The timing is particularly difficult for OWL, which spent its first two years of existence based in LA before shifting to a city-based format for the 2020 season. Prior to today’s hiatus, a number of teams in the league — particularly those based in Asia — had barely played any matches this season. Some have yet to play at all. It’s not clear whether the Call of Duty League, which is also operated by Activision Blizzard and features a similar city-based structure, will be impacted as well. “Call of Duty League scheduling considerations are being addressed, as well, and we will share more updates as soon as possible,” the league said in a statement. Blizzard hasn’t yet said what form the games will eventually take, though other esports leagues have tried different formats. In League of Legends, China’s LPL has shifted to an online structure without a live, in-person element, while the LCK in South Korea has featured games played in an empty arena. In a statement on Twitter, Activision Blizzard Esports CEO Pete Vlastelica confirmed that the games would still be played in some form. “To be clear, we will be playing matches in March and April,” he said. “We canceled the events, not the matches (though we will have to move a few things around in the schedule to make this work).” Update March 11th, 4:22PM ET: Added statement from Pete Vlastelica. Related The coronavirus’ human impact on esports The Overwatch League’s new season means travel, YouTube, and a constantly changing game Canceling events early can help keep an outbreak from getting worse In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Blizzard cancels all Overwatch League events in March and April Here’s who’s most at risk from the novel coronavirus View all 322 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook