https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/27/21197361/nvidia-geforce-now-cloud-gaming-control-new-games-weekly
Nvidia adds Control to GeForce Now and promises new games every week - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Tech Nvidia adds Control to GeForce Now and promises new games every week New, 1 comment A bit of good news for the controversial cloud gaming platform By Nick Statt@nickstatt Mar 27, 2020, 3:52pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Nvidia adds Control to GeForce Now and promises new games every week Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Nvidia Nvidia says its GeForce Now cloud gaming service will start getting new games every Thursday, starting with Remedy Entertainment’s sci-fi action title Control. The announcement is a bit of good news for the controversial platform, which has seen high-profile game publishers like Activision Blizzard, Bethesda Softworks, and 2K Games pull their entire libraries since it exited beta in early February. Part of the deal means Control can also be played on GeForce Now using Nvidia’s RTX cards, which enable ray-tracing effects for more realistic visuals. It’s not entirely clear how Nvidia secured Control, but it may have something to do with Epic Games CEO Tim Sweeney, who has publicly expressed support for the platform. “Epic is wholeheartedly supporting Nvidia’s GeForce Now service with Fortnite and with Epic Games Store titles that choose to participate (including exclusives), and we’ll be improving the integration over time,” Sweeney tweeted earlier this month. It’s the most developer-friendly and publisher-friendly of the major streaming services, with zero tax on game revenue. Game companies who want to move the game industry towards a healthier state for everyone should be supporting this kind of service! — Tim Sweeney (@TimSweeneyEpic) March 7, 2020 Control is currently an Epic Game Store exclusive on PC, and Epic also just secured the rights to future titles by Remedy Entertainment under its new publishing label. So it’s safe to say Epic, Remedy, and Nvidia are all on good terms with regard to GeForce Now. The same cannot be said of other publishers, which seemingly pulled titles the platform because they did not appreciate Nvidia including them without express permission and under older terms. Once Nvidia began charging $5 for the public trial of GeForce Now in February, it became clear that a number of big publishers weren’t informed. It’s not clear why publishers dislike the service; none of the bigger companies that have pulled titles have spoken up about it. But smaller indie developer Raphael van Lierop of Hinterland Studio said he disliked Nvidia including his game without his permission and worried the service might complicate exclusivity deals or ports to other platforms. Bigger publishers may simply not like a service that doesn’t charge separately for cloud gaming versions of titles, like Google Stadia does. Related Nvidia’s GeForce Now is becoming an important test for the future of cloud gaming But GeForce Now, in letting players access existing purchases through Valve’s Steam on any device, has presented some unprecedented licensing and legality issues the gaming industry hasn’t hammered out yet. It’s uncharted territory, and it’s clear Nvidia may have to either offer some sort of revenue cut or pay a licensing fee to publishers if it wants to use their titles. So far, the company has amicably agreed to remove all games at the request of owners, and it released a blog post earlier this month saying it expects these game removals to be “few and far between.” “Starting this week, we’re aligning most releases to Thursdays. That way our members know when to look for library updates. GeForce Now will continue releasing new and recent game launches as close to their availability as possible,” writes Andrew Fear, the senior product manager for GeForce Now, in a blog post. Nvidia says in addition to Control, it’s also adding Arma 2: Operation Arrowhead, Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc, Dungeons 3, Headsnatchers, IL-2 Sturmovik: Battle of Stalingrad, Jagged Alliance 2 – Wildfire, and The Guild 3. Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook