https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21052249/art-club
Asus’ ROG Zephyrus G14 has a hidden LED dot-matrix display on the lid - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Tech Asus’ ROG Zephyrus G14 has a hidden LED dot-matrix display on the lid New, 7 comments Plus, AMD’s newest Ryzen 4000 H-series chips By Chaim Gartenberg@cgartenberg Jan 6, 2020, 6:00pm EST Photography by Becca Farsace Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Asus’ ROG Zephyrus G14 has a hidden LED dot-matrix display on the lid Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email GIF by Chaim Gartenberg / The Verge Asus has a new gaming laptop at CES 2020: the 14-inch ROG Zephyrus G14. It’s the smallest Zephyrus gaming laptop Asus has ever made, and it features AMD’s newly announced Ryzen 4000 chips. It also has a rather neat trick: an optional LED dot-matrix display hidden in the lid that can show GIFs, the time, and more. Like previous Zephyrus laptops, the G14 is designed to be an ultra-light and portable gaming machine that still delivers enough high-end power to play modern games. It weighs just over 3.5 pounds, but it still promises to deliver 10.5 hours of battery life. Asus says that this design is meant to move away from more traditional gaming laptop designs and aesthetics by building something that looks and feels more professional (a similar ethos that’s resulted in products like the recent Razer Blade lineup). Despite that more serious design, Asus is still leaving room for fun in the form of the optional AniMe Matrix display hidden in the lid. It’s made up of 1,215 mini LEDs, each with 256 levels of brightness control that allows users to customize the lid of their laptops with new designs. The AniMe Matrix can show animated GIFs, music visualizers, the time, or whatever else you’d like to show off to your friends and co-workers. The G14 isn’t a slump on power, either. It features processors from AMD’s newly announced 45W Ryzen 4000 H-series line (up to a Ryzen 4800HS), along with up to an Nvidia RTX 2060 GPU. It can also be configured with up to 32GB of RAM and up to a 1TB SSD, although, presumably, those top-shelf specs will cost extra. Displays are a choice of a 14-inch FHD panel with a 120Hz refresh rate or a QHD panel with up to a 60Hz refresh rate. The G14 also supports USB-PD charging, and it can run for normal workloads off a 65W USB-C adapter. That said, you’ll still need a normal 180W barrel connector to take advantage of the discrete GPU for actual gaming sessions. Oddly missing is a webcam, which is a puzzling decision given the other productivity-focused choices here. The G14 has a power button with a Windows Hello-compatible fingerprint reader embedded in it for faster sign-on. Like other Zephyrus laptops, the G14 features a raised lift design where the bottom of the laptop lid lifts the back of the laptop off of your desk for improved cooling. The G14 features a different twist on it, though: instead of separating halfway through like older models, it lifts the entire back of the laptop for a more solid base. Grid View Photo by Becca Farsace / The Verge Photo by Becca Farsace / The Verge Photo by Becca Farsace / The Verge Photo by Becca Farsace / The Verge Photo by Becca Farsace / The Verge The standard version of the G14 (without the pixel display) is expected to ship sometime in mid-March, while the AniMe Matrix model will be available later in April. No price for either version has been announced. Additionally, Asus also announced an updated version of 2019’s Zephyrus G laptop, the Zephyrus G15. Like the G14, the G15 will feature AMD’s new Ryzen 4000 processors, maxing out at a Ryzen 7 4800HS. It’s also getting support for Wi-Fi 6 and a 240Hz display option, although the design is otherwise similar to last year’s model. It’ll be out sometime in early 2020, too. Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook