https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/10/21131247/lg-v60-thinq-leaked-photos-4-cameras-5000mah-battery
Leaked images appear to show the LG V60 ThinQ’s four cameras and a big battery - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech LG Leaked images appear to show the LG V60 ThinQ’s four cameras and a big battery New, 7 comments It could have a 5,000mAh battery By Cameron Faulkner@camfaulkner Feb 10, 2020, 10:50am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Leaked images appear to show the LG V60 ThinQ’s four cameras and a big battery Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Evan Blass (@evleaks) Just a few weeks ahead of Mobile World Congress 2020, two marketing images of the LG V60 ThinQ have leaked. Each one appears to show off a prominent hardware feature, and it’s good news all around if you like phones with big batteries, lots of cameras, and a headphone jack. Both images come from Evan Blass on Twitter (via GSMArena) who is a leaker with a reliable track record. According to one of these images, LG’s 2020 flagship phone looks to improve on the battery size compared to last year’s 5G-ready LG V50, jumping from 4,000mAh to 5,000mAh. This big of an increase in power is notable, though it can’t mean anything good for the phone’s thickness since the V50 was already a bit chunky. Also easily spotted in this image is a 3.5mm headphone jack, a USB-C charging port, and a bottom-firing speaker. Photo by Evan Blass The other photo gives a more complete view of the phone’s transparent backside. It points out that the V60 will have four microphones, and without calling attention to it, you can easily make out that it features four cameras. Interestingly, there appears to be a raised ring around the camera array, moving away from the V50’s seamless rear design. This image also shows off a center-aligned selfie camera, which might be an indication that its display will have a teardrop-style notch. The leaked materials didn’t indicate what kind of cameras the V60 ThinQ will have. LG usually debuts a phone each year at MWC in Barcelona, though due to the coronavirus outbreak, it pulled out from the show this year. Despite the change of plans, I wouldn’t expect it to bring much of a delay for the phone’s announcement, so stay tuned. As for whether LG’s production of it will be impacted at all (as it is for several major companies), that’s another question entirely. Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook