https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21047986/art-club
After being banned in 2019, Lora DiCarlo returns to CES with two new sex toys and awards - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News After being banned in 2019, Lora DiCarlo returns to CES with two new sex toys and awards New, 9 comments $3 million of its first product sold in five weeks By Jacob Kastrenakes@jake_k Jan 5, 2020, 8:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: After being banned in 2019, Lora DiCarlo returns to CES with two new sex toys and awards Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Left to right: the Baci, Osé, and Onda. Image: Lora DiCarlo Lora DiCarlo is unveiling two new sex toys at CES today, a year after the company was kicked out of the show. The two products, the Onda and Baci, are the company’s second and third robotic massagers, and both have been given CES innovation awards. The fact that Lora DiCarlo is at CES at all is notable. Last year, the company was initially approved to exhibit its first massager, the Osé, and it was given an innovation award in robotics. The Consumer Technology Association, which hosts the show, later said this had been a mistake and revoked Lora DiCarlo’s award and ability to attend the show. The CTA claimed that sex tech was prohibited at the show, even though some sex tech companies have been allowed to exhibit for years. More than 10,000 units of the Osé were sold in five weeks Months later, the CTA revisited that decision, reinstating the award and agreeing to allow some sex tech companies to attend this year’s show. Naturally, Lora DiCarlo is among the sex tech exhibitors this first year, having been the company responsible for kickstarting the conversation around CES’s unevenly enforced policies. In addition to its new massagers, Lora DiCarlo is also announcing sales figures around the Osé. The Osé became available for preorder in late November 2019, and the company says it brought in more than $3 million in sales before the end of the year. The massager sells for $290 — so roughly 10,000 units were sold. It’s supposed to begin shipping later this month. The Onda and Baci are planned to launch in March. They appear to be less-expensive, more focused versions of the Osé, essentially breaking the product in two: the Onda, a “robotic g-spot massager,” and the Baci, a “robotic clitoral stimulator.” In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns After being banned in 2019, Lora DiCarlo returns to CES with two new sex toys and awards Suunto’s first Wear OS smartwatch is taking on Garmin with outdoor offline maps View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook