https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21051424/acer-swift-3-amd-ryzen-4000-intel-10th-gen-release-date-price-features-ces-2020
AMD and Intel’s new chips go head-to-head inside Acer’s Swift 3 - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Microsoft Tech CES 2020 News AMD and Intel’s new chips go head-to-head inside Acer’s Swift 3 New, 5 comments AMD’s new Ryzen 4000 series processors are starting to launch By Tom Warren@tomwarren Jan 6, 2020, 6:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: AMD and Intel’s new chips go head-to-head inside Acer’s Swift 3 Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Intel and AMD’s latest processors are going head-to-head inside Acer’s new Swift 3 laptop. Acer is allowing consumers to pick between a 14-inch AMD-powered laptop or a 13.5-inch Intel version. Both laptops are largely the same, apart from the processors that power them and the screen sizes. Lenovo also unveiled its own Yoga laptop with a choice between Intel or AMD earlier today, and it looks like we’ll be seeing lots more options, thanks to AMD’s new Ryzen 4000 series chips. Much like Lenovo, Acer is pricing its AMD option starting at less than the Intel equivalent. The AMD model will start at $599, while the Intel version is $699. AMD variant of the Acer Swift 3. On the AMD side, Acer is using AMD’s new Ryzen 7 4700U processor, coupled with a 14-inch 1080p display. The Intel variant of the Swift 3 starts at 10th Gen Core i3 processors all the way up to Core i7, coupled with a 13.5-inch display with a 2256 x 1504 resolution. Both laptops include up to 16GB of RAM, a USB Type-C port, two USB-A ports, HDMI port, and a headphone jack. You can configure the Intel system with up to 1TB of SSD storage, while the AMD model supports up to 512GB. Both models also support Windows Hello facial recognition and Wi-Fi 6 connectivity. Acer is making the Intel Swift 3 available in North America in March starting at $699, with the AMD variant launching slightly later in May starting at $599. Intel variant of the Acer Swift 3. Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook