https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/13/21063451/art-club
Oscars 2020: all the nominations - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Entertainment Film Netflix Oscars 2020: all the nominations Netflix earned a total of 22 this year By Julia Alexander Jan 13, 2020, 9:16am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Oscars 2020: all the nominations Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Still: Warner Bros. fThis year’s Academy Award nominations went as predictably as possible, giving Netflix another run to nab some trophies this awards season after practically being shut out at the Golden Globe Awards. Netflix took home 24 Oscar nominations, mostly for movies like Marriage Story, The Two Popes, and The Irishman. Martin Scorsese’s three-and-a-half-hour epic received some of the Oscars’ most prestigious awards, including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay, and two Best Supporting Actor nominations for Al Pacino and Joe Pesci. (Robert De Niro did not receive a nomination.) Marriage Story, Noah Baumbach’s heartbreaking film about divorce, also earned six nominations in top categories, among others. Adam Driver and Scarlett Johansson received Best Acting nominations, while director and writer Noah Baumbach got nods for Best Screenplay and Best Picture. Two Popes also earned a couple of nominations, with Jonathan Pryce picking up the nom for Best Actor. The stage is set for Netflix to redeem itself after the recent Golden Globe Awards. Netflix earned a total of 34 nominations, 16 of which were in the film category. Laura Dern won an award for Best Supporting Actress for her work in Marriage Story, but everyone else went home empty-handed. Since the Oscars are voted on by members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, there’s a better chance that Netflix could win big. The Oscars aren’t just celebrating Netflix, though. Joker, Little Women, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, and Jojo Rabbit all earned multiple nominations across a series of award categories, including acting, sound, editing, costume, writing, and directing spots. Joker earned 11 nominations, becoming the most nominated movie this year, with Little Women and Once Upon a Time in Hollywood earning six and nine, respectively. Jojo Rabbit, Taika Waititi’s film about a young boy in the Hitler Youth who tries to navigate World War II, earned six award nominations. Parasite also earned two top nominations, one for Best International Feature Film, as many predicted, and one for Best Picture, which many people hoped would happen. There were a few outliers, too. Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker earned a couple of nominations in the sound and editing category. Avengers: Endgame and The Lion King also earned nominations for visual effects. Kathy Bates earned a Best Supporting Actress nomination for her work in Clint Eastwood’s Richard Jewell. On the snub front, The Farewell was totally shut out, as was Uncut Gems. Greta Gerwig didn’t earn a nomination for directing for her work on Little Women, and Disney’s Frozen II did not earn a Best Animated Picture nomination. Still, for the most part, this year’s Oscar nominations went as predictably as expected. The full list is below. Best Picture: Ford v Ferrari The Irishman Jojo Rabbit Joker Little Women Marriage Story 1917 Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Parasite Lead Actor: Antonio Banderas, Pain and Glory Leonardo DiCaprio, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Adam Driver, Marriage Story Joaquin Phoenix, Joker Jonathan Pryce, The Two Popes Lead Actress: Cynthia Erivo, Harriet Scarlett Johansson, Marriage Story Saoirse Ronan, Little Women Charlize Theron, Bombshell Renee Zellweger, Judy Supporting Actor: Tom Hanks, A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood Anthony Hopkins, The Two Popes Al Pacino, The Irishman Joe Pesci, The Irishman Brad Pitt, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Supporting Actress: Kathy Bates, Richard Jewell Laura Dern, Marriage Story Scarlett Johannson, Jojo Rabbit Florence Pugh, Little Women Margot Robbie, Bombshell Director: Martin Scorsese, The Irishman Todd Phillips, Joker Sam Mendes, 1917 Quentin Tarantino, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Bong Joon Ho, Parasite Animated Feature: How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World I Lost My Body Klaus Missing Link Toy Story 4 Animated Short: Dcera, Daria Kashcheeva Hair Love, Matthew A. Cherry Kitbull, Rosana Sullivan Memorable, Bruno Collet Sister, Siqi Song Adapted Screenplay: The Irishman, Steven Zaillian Jojo Rabbit, Taika Waititi Joker, Todd Phillips, Scott Silver Little Women, Greta Gerwig The Two Popes, Anthony McCarten Original Screenplay: Knives Out, Rian Johnson Marriage Story, Noah Baumbach 1917, Sam Mendes and Krysty Wilson-Cairns Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Quentin Tarantino Parasite, Bong Joon-ho, Jin Won Han Cinematography: The Irishman, Rodrigo Prieto Joker, Lawrence Sher The Lighthouse, Jarin Blaschke 1917, Roger Deakins Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Robert Richardson Best Documentary Feature: American Factory, Julia Rieichert, Steven Bognar The Cave, Feras Fayyad The Edge of Democracy, Petra Costa For Sama, Waad Al-Kateab, Edward Watts Honeyland, Tamara Kotevska, Ljubo Stefanov Best Documentary Short Subject: In the Absence Learning to Skateboard in a Warzone Life Overtakes Me St. Louis Superman Walk Run Cha-Cha Best Live Action Short Film: Brotherhood, Meryam Joobeur Nefta Football Club, Yves Piat The Neighbors’ Window, Marshall Curry Saria, Bryan Buckley A Sister, Delphine Girard Best Foreign Language Film: Corpus Christi, Jan Komasa Honeyland, Tamara Kotevska, Ljubo Stefanov Les Miserables, Ladj Ly Pain and Glory, Pedro Almodovar Parasite, Bong Joon Ho Film Editing: Ford v Ferrari, Michael McCusker, Andrew Buckland The Irishman, Thelma Schoonmaker Jojo Rabbit, Tom Eagles Joker, Jeff Groth Parasite, Jinmo Yang Sound Editing: Ford v Ferrari, Don Sylvester Joker, Alan Robert Murray 1917, Oliver Tarney, Rachel Tate Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Wylie Stateman Star Wars: The Rise of SkyWalker, Matthew Wood, David Acord Sound Mixing: Ad Astra Ford v Ferrari Joker 1917 Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Production Design: The Irishman, Bob Shaw and Regina Graves Jojo Rabbit, Ra Vincent and Nora Sopkova 1917, Dennis Gassner and Lee Sandales Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Barbara Ling and Nancy Haigh Parasite, Lee Ha-Jun and Cho Won Woo, Han Ga Ram, and Cho Hee Original Score: Joker, Hildur Guðnadóttir Little Women, Alexandre Desplat Marriage Story, Randy Newman 1917, Thomas Newman Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker, John Williams Original Song: “I Can’t Let You Throw Yourself Away,” Toy Story 4 “I’m Gonna Love Me Again,” Rocketman “I’m Standing With You,” Breakthrough “Into the Unknown,” Frozen 2 “Stand Up,” Harriet Makeup and Hair: Bombshell Joker Judy Maleficent: Mistress of Evil 1917 Costume Design: The Irishman, Sandy Powell, Christopher Peterson Jojo Rabbit, Mayes C. Rubeo Joker, Mark Bridges Little Women, Jacqueline Durran Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Arianne Phillips Visual Effects: Avengers Endgame The Irishman 1917 The Lion King Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy. Correction, Monday January 20th, 11:40pm ET: An earlier version of this story incorrectly noted that Just Mercy earned a nomination for Best Adapted Screenplay, and The King earned a nomination for Best Score. The story has been updated. Next Up In Film Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook