https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21019829/art-club
Sony reveals PlayStation 5 logo and shares PSVR sales milestone - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Design Entertainment Sony reveals PlayStation 5 logo and shares PSVR sales milestone New, 10 comments Five million virtual reality headsets sold By Nick Statt@nickstatt Jan 6, 2020, 8:28pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Sony reveals PlayStation 5 logo and shares PSVR sales milestone Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Sony revealed the PlayStation 5’s logo (aka the PS5) during its CES 2020 press conference on Monday evening alongside the announcement that Sony has sold more than 5 million PlayStation VR headsets since the device launched in October 2016. Additionally, Sony says it has sold 104 million PS4 units, which makes it the second best-selling game console in history behind the PS2. (The PS2 has a lifetime sales record of 158 million units, making it highly likely that the PS4 won’t catch up before the PS5 launches.) The logo looks exactly as expected, with Sony once again following in the footsteps of the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4’s logos for the PS5. The only real difference here is the number. The font is the same, and there are no additional design flourishes going on. Image: Sony Details about the PlayStation 5 have been slowly trickling out over the past few months as Sony gears up to launch its next-generation console later this year. There’s still no word as to what the console looks like, unlike the competing Xbox Series X that Microsoft showed off for the first time last month at The Game Awards. But Sony has said the PS5 will support 8K graphics, ray tracing, super-fast SSDs to cut down on load times, and PS4 backwards compatibility. On the hardware front, expect an eight-core CPU (based on AMD’s new Zen 2 architecture) and a custom GPU based on AMD’s Radeon Navi hardware. We also know a few details about the PlayStation 5 controller, which will swap the current rumble technology for haptic feedback tech and feature “adaptive triggers” that can adjust how much resistance there is when you press them. Sony is expected to reveal more about the PlayStation 5 later this year, presumably during the E3 expo in Los Angeles in June. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Sony reveals PlayStation 5 logo and shares PSVR sales milestone Intel announces its first discrete DG1 GPU View all 176 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook