https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/27/21156678/clearview-ai-client-macy-fbi-doj-twitter-facebook-youtube
Clearview AI’s clients include 2,200 organizations from law enforcement to universities - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Policy Tech Cybersecurity Clearview AI’s client list includes 2,200 organizations spanning law enforcement to universities The FBI, ICE, Interpol, and the Department of Justice are on the list By Kim Lyons Feb 27, 2020, 5:52pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Clearview AI’s client list includes 2,200 organizations spanning law enforcement to universities Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by James Bareham / The Verge US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the Department of Justice, the FBI, Macy’s, and Best Buy are among the thousands of government agencies and private companies using the software of facial recognition company Clearview AI, according to a leaked client list obtained exclusively by BuzzFeed News. The controversial company’s database, which includes more than 3 billion images scraped from social media and other sites, is aimed at helping law enforcement catch persons of interest, as first reported by The New York Times last month. According to the Times investigation, Clearview AI’s tools could identify people from the scraped images, revealing their names, where they lived, and other personal information. But numerous companies have strenuously objected to Clearview AI scraping their images for its database. Twitter, YouTube, and LinkedIn all have sent cease and desist letters to the company, and Facebook demanded the company “stop accessing or using information from Facebook or Instagram.” Some police departments have distanced themselves from Clearview AI, with the NYPD saying that it has no formal relationship with the company and New Jersey’s attorney general putting a moratorium on the use of Clearview AI’s software. Police departments on college campuses also are among the entities using Clearview AI’s software, sometimes without the knowledge of school officials, according to BuzzFeed News. The use of Clearview AI’s technology has not been confined to the US. Interpol and a sovereign wealth fund in the United Arab Emirates also are on the client list in BuzzFeed’s reporting, and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) said on Thursday that its National Child Exploitation Crime Centre “has been using and evaluating Clearview AI’s software for approximately four months for online child sexual exploitation investigations.” It used the software successfully in 15 cases, the RCMP says, leading to the rescue of two children. Clearview AI’s CEO Hoan Ton-That has said the company has a right to use the data it has scraped since it is publicly available. The company says its software is “not a consumer application” and not available to the general public. That has not reassured some members of Congress, however; Sen. Ed Markey (D-MA), sent a letter to Ton-That on January 23rd demanding that the company provide details about its practices and technology. Among the questions Markey wants answered: which law enforcement agencies Clearview is working with, the results of any internal bias and accuracy tests, whether Clearview plans to market its technology to non-law enforcement entities, and how it protects children’s privacy protections. “Clearview’s product appears to pose particularly chilling privacy risks, and I am deeply concerned that it is capable of fundamentally dismantling Americans’ expectation that they can move, assemble, or simply appear in public without being identified,” Markey’s letter read. Next Up In Policy Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook