https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/7/21127711/microsoft-new-edge-browser-arm64-release-surface-pro-x-download-features
Microsoft’s new Edge Chromium browser launches for the Surface Pro X and more - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Microsoft Tech Microsoft’s new Edge browser is now available for the Surface Pro X New, 7 comments It greatly improves web performance on ARM-based Windows devices By Tom Warren@tomwarren Feb 7, 2020, 2:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Microsoft’s new Edge browser is now available for the Surface Pro X Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Vjeran Pavic / The Verge Microsoft is releasing Edge version 80 today, and the most significant addition is ARM64 support for devices like the Surface Pro X. We’ve been waiting for a native ARM64 version of Edge or Chrome for the Surface Pro X, and our initial review of Microsoft’s tablet showed how it struggled with browsers running in software emulation. We’ve been testing the ARM64 version of Edge since November, and it has had a big impact on improving the Surface Pro X. Switching tabs, rendering web content, and scrolling speeds are all greatly improved with Edge 80 for the Surface Pro X. It’s truly transformative, and Microsoft’s implementation of Progressive Web Apps (PWAs) makes the Pro X the world’s most extravagant Chromebook. Microsoft launched its new Chromium-based version of Edge for both macOS and Windows last month. It includes built-in anti-tracking protection, a web Collections feature, an Internet Explorer mode for businesses, and more. Microsoft is planning to gradually roll this new browser out to existing Windows 10 users, but you can manually update if you don’t want to wait. Microsoft’s new ARM64 version of Edge is now available on the company’s Edge installer site. Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook