https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21048593/lenovo-legion-y740s-laptop-booststation-egpu-release-date-features-price-ces-2020
Lenovo’s BoostStation eGPU enclosure arrives alongside the Legion Y740S laptop   - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Microsoft Tech CES 2020 News Here’s Lenovo’s first eGPU enclosure and a ‘gaming laptop’ to go with it New, 17 comments The Lenovo BoostStation and Legion Y740S will arrive in May By Jon Porter@JonPorty Jan 5, 2020, 3:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Here’s Lenovo’s first eGPU enclosure and a ‘gaming laptop’ to go with it Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Lenovo Lenovo is getting into the eGPU market with the Legion BoostStation, a new eGPU enclosure which can accommodate graphics cards up to 330mm in length. The company also has a new laptop it’s announcing today: the Legion Y740S, which starts at $1,099.99. The company’s press release calls it “our thinnest and lightest gaming laptop yet,” but that’s a claim you’re going to have to take with a hefty pinch of salt, not least because it lacks a dedicated graphics card, potentially making it a good partner for the BoostStation. The pairing puts Lenovo in more or less direct competition with Razer, which already offers a pair of eGPU enclosures in its Razer Core X lineup that can be used alongside laptops like its compact Blade Stealth models. Lenovo’s eGPU enclosure comes with a small price advantage over Razer’s: the BoostStation starts at just $249.99, while Razer’s Core X starts at $300. In addition, Lenovo’s enclosure comes with a USB hub (including a pair of USB 3.1 Gen 1 ports and an Ethernet port), while Razer only offers a hub with its more expensive $400 Razer Core X Chroma. That said, Razer’s enclosures can accommodate graphics cards that are 330mm in length, which is slightly better than Lenevo’s 320mm maximum. As well as selling the enclosure on its own, Lenovo says it also plans to bundle it with a variety of graphics cards from Nvidia and AMD, though there’s no mention yet of what these bundles could end up costing. Around the back of the eGPU enclosure you’ll find a selection of USB ports and an Ethernet jack. Image: Lenovo Away from its first eGPU enclosure, Lenovo’s Legion Y740S doesn’t sound like quite the gaming laptop that the company is billing it as. There’s the missing GPU for one thing, and the screen also tops out at 60Hz, when a lot of gaming laptops will offer a refresh rate of 120Hz or even higher these days. To Lenovo’s credit, it offers the laptop with up to a 10th gen Intel Core i9 H-series processor, but with that spec its modest 60 Wh battery might struggle to power it for long (Lenovo claims you’ll get up to eight hours from it). Oh, and while we’re at it, a 4.18-pound (1.9kg) laptop that’s 0.58 inches thick isn’t especially thin and light these days. Elsewhere, the Legion Y740S has a fairly standard set of specs. For starters, you can get up to 32GB of RAM and up to 1TB of PCIe SSD storage. It also comes with a good selection of ports, including two USB 3.1 Gen 2 ports, an SD card reader, a headphone jack, and two Thunderbolt 3 ports, one of which you’ll have to use to connect its eGPU enclosure if you decide to go down that route. You get a choice of a 1080p or 4K display, both 15.6 inches in size, and both with 60Hz refresh rates. Image: Lenovo Image: Lenovo Image: Lenovo Image: Lenovo Lenovo says both the Lenovo BoostStation enclosure and Legion Y740S laptop will be available starting in May. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Here’s Lenovo’s first eGPU enclosure and a ‘gaming laptop’ to go with it This thermometer is smart enough to automatically adjust a Whirlpool oven’s temperature View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook