https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/8/21056418/linksys-wellness-pods-aware-health-date
Linksys routers will soon monitor your breathing as well as movement  - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Smart Home Science Tech Linksys routers will soon monitor your breathing as well as movement New, 11 comments Hooray? By Thomas Ricker@Trixxy Jan 8, 2020, 4:41am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Linksys routers will soon monitor your breathing as well as movement Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Linksys Wellness Pods next to a Velop mesh router. Image: Linksys Linksys Velop mesh routers can already sense movement inside homes, now they’re adding the ability to monitor the health of human inhabitants with the introduction of new Wellness Pods. Created in collaboration with AI company Origin Wireless, Wellness Pods work together with Linksys Velop Tri-Band nodes and Linksys Aware software to track breathing patterns and sleep quality, according to Linksys. They can also be used to detect falls of elderly family members. It does all this without the use of wearables or cameras, which could alleviate some privacy concerns. Linksys is able to detect motion by measuring disruptions in radio wave intensity between at least two Velop nodes caused by a person or animal walking through a room, for example. According to Gizmodo, Linksys Aware measures the network about 30 times a second, but adding a few Wellness Pods to the network increases the sampling rate to 1,500 times a second. That provides enough detail to detect even subtle movements in a room like human respiration, according to the company. Linksys isn’t providing an exact date or price for the Wellness Pods, but says they should arrive sometimes later this year. A subscription to Linksys Aware currently costs $2.99 per month or $24.99 annually. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Linksys Wi-Fi will soon monitor your breathing as well as movement Filmmaker Mode is coming to Samsung and Philips TVs to cure motion smoothing View all 176 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook