https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/13/21179120/tsa-hand-sanitizer-liquid-size-airport-screening-coronavirus-covid-19
You can now take up to 12 ounces of hand sanitizer through airport security - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Transportation Aviation You can now take up to 12 ounces of hand sanitizer through airport security New, 6 comments Yeah, but who’s flying? By Andrew J. Hawkins@andyjayhawk Mar 13, 2020, 4:42pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: You can now take up to 12 ounces of hand sanitizer through airport security Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Robert Alexander/Getty Images The Transportation Security Administration announced that it was updating its policies concerning liquids in carry-on baggage in response to the novel coronavirus pandemic. Air passengers will now be allowed to bring on board hand sanitizer containers up to 12 ounces (355 milliliters) in size, which is much larger than the standard 3.4 ounces (100 milliliters) previously allowed. There are some caveats, though. The updated policy only applies to hand sanitizer. And larger containers will be subject to additional screening by TSA agents, which will likely lead to increased wait times. So ask yourself before heading out to the airport: how much sanitizer do you really need? .@TSA now allowing passengers to bring liquid hand sanitizer up to 12 oz in carry-on bags until further notice. Expect these containers larger than the standard of 3.4 oz of liquids will need to be screened separately, which will add some time to checkpoint screening. — TSAmedia_LisaF (@TSAmedia_LisaF) March 13, 2020 Air travel is being upended by COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus. Today, Delta Air Lines announced that it will be reducing its flight capacity by 40 percent due to a drop-off in demand, marking the biggest reduction in operations in the airline’s history. Other airlines have cut back on flight schedules as well. Earlier this week, President Trump said the US would be temporarily restricting travel from Europe beginning on March 13th. Airports are said to be stocking up on disinfectants and other cleaning equipment. Passengers are likely to see hand sanitizer stations everywhere at airports reflecting this new reality, so no worries for those who don’t feel like lugging a huge bottle of the stuff on the plane with them. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline You can now take up to 12 ounces of hand sanitizer through airport security Royal Caribbean suspends US cruise operations after national emergency declared View all 322 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook