https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/10/21173287/instacart-coronavirus-sick-pay-workers-in-store-shoppers-covid19
Instacart and DoorDash now offer paid sick leave for workers diagnosed with COVID-19 - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Apps Tech Coronavirus Instacart and DoorDash now offer paid sick leave for workers diagnosed with COVID-19 New, 2 comments Postmates is also launching a fund for workers’ coronavirus-related medical expenses By Jay Peters@jaypeters Updated Mar 10, 2020, 3:34pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Instacart and DoorDash now offer paid sick leave for workers diagnosed with COVID-19 Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Lane Turner/The Boston Globe via Getty Images Instacart, DoorDash, and Postmates have announced new policies to help their gig workers with potential financial burdens they might incur if they have to miss work due to the ongoing spread of the novel coronavirus. Any of Instacart’s part-time employees or full-service shoppers diagnosed with COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus, or put in mandatory quarantine will now be able to receive up to 14 days of pay, according to Instacart. That brings the company in line with Uber and Lyft, which will similarly be compensating drivers for up to two weeks of pay if they are affected by the novel coronavirus. However, it’s worth noting this policy will only be available for 30 days from March 9th, according to Instacart’s blog. Instacart is also letting all of its in-store shoppers nationally accrue sick pay, and that includes part-time employees. This benefit was previously only available to shoppers in select markets. Instacart shoppers can earn one hour of sick pay for every 30 hours worked, up to a maximum of 40 hours per year. Sick pay accrual will be backdated to the start of this year. Instacart is also letting all of its in-store shoppers accrue sick pay DoorDash will provide “up to two weeks of assistance to Dashers and Caviar couriers who are diagnosed with COVID-19 or who are subject to quarantine at the direction of public health officials,” the company said in a statement to The Verge. “The program will be available globally in all of the markets we serve in the United States, Canada, and Australia.” Postmates is launching a fund that delivery workers in more than 22 states will be able to use to pay back the costs of COVID-19-related medical expenses, the company announced today. Grubhub hasn’t replied to a request for comment asking if it plans to pay workers who have to miss work due to the novel coronavirus outbreak. On Friday, Instacart also rolled out a new “Leave at My Door Delivery” option across North America. Before Friday, it was in testing, and the company said it had seen a “significant surge in usage of this feature over the last few weeks,” which is why it decided to roll the feature out nationally. Postmates also rolled out a similar feature on Friday. DoorDash lets you enter instructions to have orders left at your door, and said it is “testing enhanced drop-off options for contactless delivery to be rolled out shortly,” in a statement to The Verge. Grubhub also lets you enter delivery instructions when you place an order. Related Amazon Flex drivers won’t be paid if they have to stay home due to coronavirus, but Uber’s and Lyft’s will Postmates says it will start ‘non-contact’ meal deliveries during the coronavirus outbreak Update March 10th, 3:34PM ET: Added context from GrubHub. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Instacart and DoorDash now offer paid sick leave for workers diagnosed with COVID-19 Fearful reactions to the new coronavirus can put lives at risk View all 322 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook