https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/19/21185759/art-club
How to boost your home’s Wi-Fi - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Smart Home How-to Reviews How to boost your home’s Wi-Fi As the world hunkers down, it’s important to get the wireless internet you need By Dan Rosenbaum Mar 19, 2020, 1:05pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: How to boost your home’s Wi-Fi Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustrator by Alex Castro / The Verge Part of The Verge Guide to Working at Home If you’re now working at home due to the COVID-19 outbreak, you may have a moment when you realize that your Wi-Fi just isn’t cutting it anymore — it could be a frozen video feed, a rainbow spinner on your screen, or a cry from your kids when their favorite game doesn’t load. Here are a few things you can do to get the most out of your bandwidth. Measure your speed Your first step is to understand the nature of your problem and measure the quality of your Wi-Fi. You can do this from your laptop’s browser; you can also use your phone by going into Airplane Mode and turning on the Wi-Fi (you want to be sure that you’re not using cellular data for this.) Then point your browser to a service like fast.com or Speedtest (which has apps for mobile devices) to see how fast your Wi-Fi is running. Check your speed in several different rooms, and take note if there are places that score significantly lower than others. Check your network It sounds dumb, but it does happen: make sure your devices are using the network you think they are. Sometimes (and for no reason), devices will glom onto, say, your ISP’s lower-speed wireless hotspot rather than your home’s high-speed network. It just takes a second, so double-check. Buy enough bandwidth Data requirements creep up on us, and you’re probably sucking down more bits than you used to. Maybe you bought a higher-resolution HDTV and are enjoying 4K Netflix, or you’ve started using a tablet while you watch streams, or you’ve taken up interactive gaming, or your kids’ school has closed, or you’re working from home and doing a lot of video conferencing. Or some combination of all of these. It adds up. Data requirements creep up on us, and you’re probably sucking down more bits than you used to It won’t do you any good to improve your Wi-Fi coverage around the house if traffic is getting choked by your ISP. Look at your bill or contact customer service to find out how much bandwidth you’re buying. It’s now easy to find plans with 100Mbps and up, but if you haven’t checked lately, you may have an older plan with much slower speeds. It’s also possible that you’re nudging up against monthly data caps, though ISPs will usually warn you if that’s the problem. If you still have DSL service from your local phone company, check to be sure that no faster alternative has materialized in your area. Many ISPs are offering COVID-19-related deals. For example, Altice, Spectrum, and Xfinity are offering two free months of service for new customers with kindergarten through college students. Also, major ISPs are lifting data caps and opening up their Wi-Fi hotspots to non-subscribers (in fact, all carriers have opened their mobile hotspots to the public for 60 days, per the FCC’s request). Some are even increasing internet speeds for existing customers. Look at your provider’s website and check. Move your wireless router If the bandwidth test you did shows dead spots in your home, try moving your wireless router. It’s not at all unusual for a Wi-Fi router to be stuck in the corner of a house or apartment, near the wall where service enters your home. That’s the worst place for it. Wi-Fi is radio; radios have limited range and sometimes have trouble penetrating walls. If it’s practical, try moving your router to a more central location by running a longer coax or Ethernet cable from the wall jack. Try to keep the router away from big pieces of metal, like refrigerators or microwave ovens. Wi-Fi doesn’t do well around lots of water, either, so stay away from 100-gallon aquariums. Then try the speed checks again to see if it helped. Change the channel This is an especially fruitful thing to try if there are a lot of other Wi-Fi networks near you, because you may be experiencing radio interference. Some routers are designed to sense interference and pick uncluttered frequencies themselves, but not all of them are great at that or at finding clearer frequencies as conditions change. Go into your router’s settings and systematically try other channels and see if that helps. Move to 5GHz Modern Wi-Fi works on the 2.4GHz and 5GHz frequency band. The latter is faster and is less subject to interference but doesn’t travel as far and can’t penetrate walls as well. The former is more robust but is susceptible to interference from microwave ovens and some older cordless phones. If you can, opt for 5GHz if your devices support it. If you have an old router that doesn’t support 5GHz (that is, 802.11ax, 802.11ac, 802.11n or 802.11a), you should think seriously about getting a new one. And note: the 5GHz band has nothing to do with 5G cellular service. The similarity in names is a coincidence. Don’t be confused. Get a Wi-Fi extender It’s possible that you can’t move your router or that moving it didn’t help. In that case, look into getting a range extender and placing it where the signal is weak. Photo by Dan Seifert / The Verge Get a mesh network Replacing your whole Wi-Fi network is the nuclear option of improving your bandwidth, but you should think about it if your network is more than five years old — certainly if it’s more than 10. Mesh networks like Google Nest, Netgear’s Orbi, Eero, or TP-Link Deco (and there are many others) are a big step up from older point-to-point systems both in speed and convenience. The very latest routers support the newest 802.11ax standard, also known as Wi-Fi 6, but it’s unlikely that any of your devices do. However, if you’re buying for the future, device upgrades for the next several years will increasingly be able to use that standard. In the end, making sure your home Wi-Fi network runs well — especially when your income or your kids’ education is concerned — is worth the effort and probably the expense as well. Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy. The Verge Guide to Working at Home Tech strategies 6 How to work from home How to choose a free videoconference app The do’s and don’ts of video conferencing How to hide your messy room for a Zoom video conference How to find keyboard shortcuts for Zoom How to help your remote workers feel involved Staying sane 7 How to use Netflix Party to stream movies with your friends How to watch movies with friends online Here’s a list of games you should play while you’re stuck inside avoiding the coronavirus The best movies and TV shows to stream when you’re working remotely How social networks can do good while we’re all trapped indoors Soothing live animal webcams to watch while you’re stuck at home How to order takeout safely and ethically Furniture and gadgets 3 My favorite adjustable tables for working from home The best laptop you can buy right now The best wireless headphones to buy right now Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook