https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/10/21131362/art-club
Equifax was hacked by Chinese military officers, federal prosecutors say - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Policy Tech Cybersecurity Equifax was hacked by Chinese military officers, federal prosecutors say The 2017 breach exposed the personal information of about 150 million Americans By Kim Lyons Feb 10, 2020, 11:34am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Equifax was hacked by Chinese military officers, federal prosecutors say Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge On Monday morning, the Department of Justice announced the indictment of four members of China’s military in connection with the 2017 hack of credit reporting agency Equifax, which exposed sensitive information for some 150 million Americans in 2017. According to the indictment, the group hacked into Equifax’s systems in Alpharetta, Georgia, starting in May 2017, exploiting a vulnerability in the Apache Struts framework used by Equifax. The massive breach exposed names, Social Security numbers, birthdates, addresses, and, in some cases, driver’s license numbers, with credit card numbers for more than 200,000 people and other personally identifying information for approximately 182,000 people also compromised. “The scale of the theft was staggering,” Attorney General William Barr said in a press conference. “The deliberate, indiscriminate theft of vast amounts of sensitive personal data of civilians, as occurred here, cannot be countenanced.” It’s the second time the DOJ has indicted members of China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in an economic espionage case. In 2014, the Obama administration announced 31 charges of economic espionage, trade secret theft, identity theft, conspiracy to commit computer fraud, and other related crimes against five PLA officers. (China denied involvement.) At the time, the indictment was seen as an unprecedented expansion of domestic criminal powers, although such charges have grown more common in the wake of that case. In this case, prosecutors have charged the four PLA members with conspiracy to commit computer fraud, conspiracy to commit economic espionage, and conspiracy to commit wire fraud. These were not the first charges the Justice Department has brought in connection with the breach. In July, former Equifax CIO Jun Ying was sentenced to four months in prison for insider trading for selling his stock options after learning about the breach. FBI Deputy Director David Bowdich told reporters this morning that there was not evidence “at this time” that the exposed Equifax data was being used. But Bowdich expressed frustration about what he sees as the general attitude toward data breaches. “We’ve almost become, as a country, immune to these breaches,” said Bowdich, adding that Americans have become used to reading about a breach and then signing up for credit card monitoring. “We cannot think like that. American businesses can not be complacent about protecting their data and intellectual property from our adversaries. American citizens cannot be complacent about protecting their sensitive data.” Next Up In Policy Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook