https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/22/21189846/best-buy-curbside-pickup-home-office-coronavirus
Best Buy moves to curbside pickup only as orders for home office equipment surge - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Coronavirus Best Buy moves to curbside pickup only as it sees surge in orders for home office equipment Only employees will be allowed inside its stores beginning March 22nd By Kim Lyons Mar 22, 2020, 9:19am EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Best Buy moves to curbside pickup only as it sees surge in orders for home office equipment Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Starting today, Best Buy is limiting its US stores to “contactless” curbside service, allowing only employees into its stores, according to a statement from the company. Orders placed on the Best Buy website or via its app will be delivered to customers’ cars outside its stores by employees. The curbside system includes returns and exchanges, and in an email to customers, Best Buy says “if, for any reason, you didn’t order the product in advance and the product is in stock in the store, one of our employees will be more than happy to go get it in the store and sell it to you while you remain in your car.” Best Buy has suspended its in-home installations and repair services, as well as its product trade-in and recycling services. “We are seeing a surge in demand across the country for products that people need to work or learn from home, as well as those products that allow people to refrigerate or freeze food,” Best Buy CEO Corie Barry said in a statement. “As we meet the demand for these necessities, we are adjusting how we operate in many ways to improve safety.” As of Monday, Best Buy will only deliver large items like refrigerators and TVs to customers’ doorsteps and not bring the items into houses. “We know that this change will be inconvenient, and we are truly sorry,” the email to customers states. “It was made with our employees’ and your best interests at heart.” Customers who have Best Buy orders scheduled for installation in the next 30 days will receive an email about delivery options. The company says it’s made some adjustments to compensate employees who continue to come in to work, and anyone whose hours are eliminated by the new restrictions “will be paid for two weeks at their normal wage rate based on their average hours worked over the last 10 weeks.” The email to customers says all Best Buy employees who are working right now are doing so “on a voluntary basis” and says any employee who feels sick and stays home will be paid for that time, anyone exposed to COVID-19 is being asked to stay home — with pay— and Best Buy is paying employees who may need to care for children at home (but the email does not say how much or for how long). We’ve reached out to Best Buy for more details about how it’s compensating its employees during the coronavirus outbreak and will update if we hear back from them. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Best Buy moves to curbside pickup only as it sees surge in orders for home office equipment Pro drivers are competing with gamers after F1 and NASCAR canceled races View all 322 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook