https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/13/21178863/delta-coronavirus-crisis-flight-reduction-crisis-history-ceo-salary
Delta is cutting more flights now than it did after 9/11 - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Transportation Coronavirus Delta is cutting more flights now than it did after 9/11 The coronavirus-related reduction is part of a ‘severe crisis,’ the airline’s CEO says By Kim Lyons Mar 13, 2020, 2:47pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Delta is cutting more flights now than it did after 9/11 Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Nicolas Economou/NurPhoto via Getty Images Delta Air Lines is reducing its flight capacity by 40 percent due to a coronavirus-related dropoff in demand, marking the biggest reduction in operations in the airline’s history. That includes the months after the September 11th terrorist attacks in 2001, Bloomberg reports. Delta CEO Ed Bastian told employees in a memo on Friday that he will forgo his salary for the next six months, calling the situation “a severe crisis.” “The speed of the demand fall-off is unlike anything we’ve seen,” Bastian said in a statement. “We are moving quickly to preserve cash and protect our company. And with revenues dropping, we must be focused on taking costs out of our business.” .@delta to slash 40% capacity, currently seeing more cancelations than new bookings over the next four weeks. Will park about 300 planes, begin hiring freeze and unpaid leave. CEO Ed Bastian forgoing his salary adding “situation is fluid and likely to be getting worse.” Letter: pic.twitter.com/WsK9IyrjC8 — Kris Van Cleave (@krisvancleave) March 13, 2020 Bastian added that Delta was “in discussions with the White House and Congress regarding the support they can provide to help us through this period. I’m optimistic we will receive their support.” Delta will ground as many as 300 planes, defer new aircraft deliveries, and reduce investment by at least $2 billion this year, Bloomberg reports. A hiring freeze is in effect for the airline, and employees are being offered voluntary unpaid leave. Other airlines have cut back on flight schedules in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. On March 10th, American Airlines announced that it would temporarily reduce its domestic flight schedule, and United and JetBlue both said they would cut back domestic routes until May. Most major airlines have waived change fees for the next several weeks. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Delta is cutting more flights now than it did after 9/11 Automakers tell non-factory employees to work remote to avoid coronavirus spread View all 322 stories Next Up In Transportation Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook