https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21051793/art-club
Incipio brings environmentally friendly phone cases into the mainstream - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Tech CES 2020 News Incipio brings environmentally friendly phone cases into the mainstream Incipio is the latest brand to join the trend By Aliya Chaudhry Jan 6, 2020, 4:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Incipio brings environmentally friendly phone cases into the mainstream Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Incipio Incipio announced a line of compostable plant-based phone cases today, joining a growing trend in eco-friendly cases. Compostable phone cases are nothing new. Several smaller brands have made cases out of skateboards, wood, flax straw, bamboo, cork, and recycled plastic fishing nets. Even major phone case brand Zagg sells cases made from recycled water bottles. But with Incipio joining Zagg, it looks like the eco-friendly trend is going even more mainstream. Incipio’s new cases are made from a plant-based material called Organicore, which is expected to break down in as little as six months in an industrial compost setting. Those compost locations can be hard to find, though, and compostable plastic alternatives can only break down if they are deposited in an appropriate facility. The case’s packaging is also completely recyclable and uses water-based ink that’s also said to be environmentally friendly. The cases are available for purchase now for $39.99 and are made for the iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro, and iPhone 11 Pro Max. They’re available in black, deep pine, green, stone gray, and oatmeal beige. The cases are supposed to be able to withstand a six-foot drop and support wireless charging. Incipio plans on making similar compostable cases for other smartphones, tablets, and AirPods later this year. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Incipio brings environmentally friendly phone cases into the mainstream LG’s smart TVs are the latest to add Apple TV, and you won’t have to buy a 2020 model to get it View all 176 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook