https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/3/21120981/art-club
Formula E cancels race in China because of the coronavirus outbreak - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Tech Transportation Formula E cancels race in China because of the coronavirus outbreak The electric racing series’ Sanya event was scheduled for March 21st By Sean O'Kane@sokane1 Feb 3, 2020, 4:51pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Formula E cancels race in China because of the coronavirus outbreak Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Sam Bloxham/Jaguar Racing/Getty Images All-electric racing series Formula E has canceled an upcoming race in China due to the recent coronavirus outbreak, according to the Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile (FIA), the series’ governing body. “Given the current growing health concerns and with the World Health Organisation declaring the coronavirus an international emergency, Formula E has taken the necessary measures to ensure the health and safety of its travelling staff, championship participants and spectators, which remains of paramount importance,” the FIA said in a statement released late Sunday. The FIA said it’s working with Formula E and local governments to “study the viability of potential alternative dates should the situation improve,” meaning a makeup date isn’t fully out of the question. The race was originally supposed to be run on March 21st in Sanya, an island city in Hainan province. Related Everything you need to know about the coronavirus from China China has always been an important part of Formula E. The young racing series’ inaugural race in September 2014 took place in Beijing, and Formula E also kicked off its second season in 2015 with a race in the capital city. Formula E returned to China during its fifth season after striking a deal to race on the streets of Sanya, and has raced there since. Formula E has also featured a number of Chinese teams and drivers in its half-decade of operation. The driver who won the first Formula E drivers’ championship in season one did so while racing for the series’ first Chinese team. And last season, Chinese team Techeetah won both the drivers’ and teams’ championships. The recent coronavirus outbreak started in China at the end of 2019. Since then, there have been over 362 deaths and 17,000 confirmed cases, the majority of which are in China. The outbreak has caused all sorts of disruptions, ranging from the Chinese government’s lockdown of multiple cities near the epicenter of the outbreak, to the US government’s recent refusal to admit foreign nationals who’ve traveled to China within the last two weeks. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Formula E cancels race in China because of the coronavirus outbreak Uber temporarily suspends 240 accounts in Mexico over coronavirus fears View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook