https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/8/21057739/art-club
TiVo says its unreleased Roku and Apple TV apps are ‘on hold’ - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Apps Entertainment Tech TiVo says its unreleased Roku and Apple TV apps are ‘on hold’ New, 9 comments The Fire TV app is still missing as well By Jay Peters@jaypeters Jan 8, 2020, 8:50pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: TiVo says its unreleased Roku and Apple TV apps are ‘on hold’ Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo: TiVo Last year at CES, TiVo said it would be launching apps for Roku, Apple TV, and Fire TV sometime in 2019 that would let users watch live or recorded video without needing a separate TiVo Mini box. Now, a year later, TiVo still hasn’t released an app for any of those streaming devices, and you probably won’t see one soon. TiVo confirmed to TechHive that the Apple TV and Roku apps are “currently on hold,” and based on a TiVo’s executive comments, the Fire TV app doesn’t seem imminent, either. TechHive learned that the apps might be having some trouble in an interview at CES with Ted Malone, TiVo’s VP of consumer products and services. Malone actually originally characterized the Apple TV and Roku apps as “in limbo,” but a TiVo spokesperson followed up with TechHive to clarify that the apps are actually “on hold.” (Semantics!) They were put on hold so the company could focus on the TiVo Stream 4K TiVo’s spokesperson said that the Apple TV and Roku apps were put on hold because the company “re-prioritized several projects in order to focus on the launch of TiVo Stream 4K.” (The TiVo Stream 4K is a new $69 HDMI streaming dongle the company announced at this year’s CES that’s designed to compete with streaming sticks like Fire TV and Chromecast.) The potential of a future Fire TV TiVo app seems to be a bit more complicated. Here is what Malone said about it, according to TechHive: Malone wouldn’t say definitively that the apps have cancelled, and he believes Android TV support may arrive at some point as a tie-in to the TiVo Stream 4K, which runs Android TV. From there, adding Fire TV support wouldn’t be difficult because Fire TV apps are based on Android as well. Still, he didn’t give a timeline for either. Based on Malone’s and TiVo’s comments, it seems like we shouldn’t expect to see TiVo apps for Roku, Apple TV, or Fire TV in the near future. And if we ever do, their stream quality may not be great, at TiVo has already said they would be limited to 720p and 30fps. Related TiVo gets into the streaming fight with the new $69 Stream 4K New TiVo apps will let you watch live TV on Apple TV, Fire TV, and Roku boxes TiVo’s new streaming apps will be limited to 720p and 30 fps In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns TiVo says its unreleased Roku and Apple TV apps are ‘on hold’ Samsung now thinks it sold either 400,000 or 500,000 Galaxy Folds, not sure View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook