https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/10/21059698/art-club
Fewer propellers mean more battery-life for the Falcon bicopter drone - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News Drones Fewer propellers mean more battery-life for the Falcon bicopter drone New, 20 comments Are two propellers better than four? By James Vincent Jan 10, 2020, 5:14am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Fewer propellers mean more battery-life for the Falcon bicopter drone Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email The Falcon and the falconer. Credit: Zero Zero Robotics When are two propellers better than four? When they give your drone extra battery life, greater portability, and reduce noise, claims Zero Zero Robotics. That’s the pitch for the company’s V-Coptr Falcon: a bicopter drone with an impressive flight time of 50 minutes — 20 minutes more than the comparable DJI Mavic 2. For years, four propellers have been standard for consumer drones, offering greater power and stability. But Zero Zero says its tilt-rotor design, which lets each propeller swivel independently, allows the Falcon to match four-prop rivals. Tilting the propellers improves the drone’s aerodynamic profile, says the company, reducing drag. Add to this the reduced battery drain from running fewer propellers and the drone’s compact form when the two arms are folded, and you have a pretty convincing sales pitch. Grid View In addition to its bicopter design, the Falcon looks kitted out for aerial photography and videos. There’s a 12-megapixel main camera mounted on a three-axis gimbal, with a 1/2.3 inch Sony CMOS and Qualcomm ISP capable of capturing 4K video at 30fps. There’s also a pair of stereo cameras on the main body that enable visual tracking and obstacle avoidance, similar to features offered on the company’s Hover 2 “selfie drone” (which some Kickstarter backers are still waiting to receive). Zero Zero is also promising easy filming on the Falcon with “pre-programmed flight paths for cinematic shots.” We’ve seen video of the Falcon flying, but want to try it for ourselves to test its battery life and flight ability. Overall, though, it’s an interesting package. The V-Coptr Falcon is available to preorder for its retail price of $999, with shipping starting some time February this year. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Fewer propellers mean more battery-life for the Falcon bicopter drone This folding 8K drone could rival DJI and Skydio View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook