https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21050868/art-club
Golden Globes 2020: the complete list of winners  - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Entertainment TV Shows Film Golden Globe 2020 winners: Netflix takes a back seat in a night full of surprises The streamer received the most nominations, but it didn’t dominate By Julia Alexander Jan 5, 2020, 11:14pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Golden Globe 2020 winners: Netflix takes a back seat in a night full of surprises Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email The Golden Globe Awards kicked off a new decade of awards shows with a series of surprising wins in both the film and TV categories. Perhaps the biggest surprise was that streaming didn’t dominate the way people expected. Considering Netflix earned a total of 34 nominations in both film and television, its two wins can arguably be seen as a shutout. None of Netflix’s biggest titles, including The Irishman or Two Popes, won any awards. On the acting side, Marriage Story’s Adam Driver and Scarlett Johansson, and The Irishman’s Al Pacino and Joe Pesci all lost out to competitors in their respective categories. Even though they lost tonight, there’s always a good chance things will be different at the Oscars next month. “Everyone is watching Netflix,” host Ricky Gervais said at the top of the show. “This show should just be me coming out going: ‘Well done, Netflix. You win everything tonight.’” Considering Netflix earned a total of 34 nominations in both film and television, tonight’s two wins can arguably be seen as a shutout Well, not quite. While Netflix didn’t have the night it might have expected, both Netflix and Amazon Studios did receive a few accolades throughout the night. Laura Dern was awarded Best Supporting Actress for her work in Marriage Story, while Olivia Coleman won Best Actress in a Drama Series for her work in The Crown. Amazon Studios’ Phoebe Waller-Bridge and Fleabag took home multiple awards, following the show’s dominance at last year’s Emmy Awards. The other big streamer of the night, Apple TV Plus, faced a complete shut out for The Morning Show. Hulu, the other big streaming player at the Globes, won two awards. Universal Pictures’ 1917 took home the prize for Best Drama, beating out The Irishman, Marriage Story, Joker, and The Two Popes, while director Sam Mendes beat out favorites like Martin Scorsese and Quentin Tarantino for Best Director. Warner Bros.’ biggest movie of 2019, Joker, picked up a few major wins, including Best Actor for Joaquin Phoenix and Best Score for composer Hildur Gudnadottir. Sony Pictures and Quentin Tarantino’s Once Upon a Time in Hollywood cleaned up: the movie won Best Picture, Comedy or Musical; Quentin Tarantino took home gold for his screenplay; and Brad Pitt won for Best Supporting Actor. Even Rocketman, Elton John’s biopic of sorts, picked up a couple of awards, including a Best Actor win for Taron Egerton. Disney was completely shut out of the animation category On the TV side, HBO saw some big wins. Jeremy Armstrong’s media-loved Succession won the award for Best Drama, and Chernobyl won Best Limited Series. Showtime also saw a win: Russell Crowe received gold for his portrayal of Roger Ailes in Showtime’s The Loudest Voice. Michelle Williams helped FX take home a prize, too, for her performance in Fosse/Verdon. Then there were a few other big surprises. Disney was completely shut out of the animation category, even though it earned three of the five nominations for Toy Story 4, Frozen 2, and The Lion King. Jennifer Lopez lost out for her performance in Hustlers to Laura Dern for the actress’ work in Marriage Story, though both performances were critically acclaimed. Elton John’s original song “I’m Gonna Love Me Again” from Rocketman also beat out Taylor Swift’s original track for Cats, Idina Menzel’s “Into the Unknown” in Frozen 2, and Beyoncé’s “Spirit” in The Lion King. The full list of Golden Globe winners can be read below. The winners are bolded. Best Motion Picture, Drama 1917 The Irishman Joker Marriage Story The Two Popes Best Motion Picture, Musical or Comedy Dolemite Is My Name Jojo Rabbit Knives Out Once Upon a Time … in Hollywood Rocketman Best Director, Motion Picture Bong Joon Ho — Parasite Sam Mendes — 1917 Todd Phillips — Joker Martin Scorsese — The Irishman Quentin Tarantino — Once Upon a Time … in Hollywood Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture, Drama Cynthia Erivo — Harriet Scarlett Johansson — Marriage Story Saoirse Ronan — Little Women Charlize Theron — Bombshell Renée Zellweger — Judy Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture, Musical or Comedy Ana de Armas — Knives Out Awkwafina — The Farewell Cate Blanchett — Where’d You Go, Bernadette Beanie Feldstein — Booksmart Emma Thompson — Late Night Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in any Motion Picture Kathy Bates — Richard Jewell Annette Bening — The Report Laura Dern — Marriage Story Jennifer Lopez — Hustlers Margot Robbie — Bombshell Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture, Drama Christian Bale — Ford v Ferrari Antonio Banderas — Pain and Glory Adam Driver — Marriage Story Joaquin Phoenix — Joker Jonathan Pryce — The Two Popes Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture, Musical or Comedy Daniel Craig — Knives Out Roman Griffin Davis — Jojo Rabbit Leonardo DiCaprio — Once Upon a Time … in Hollywood Taron Egerton — Rocketman Eddie Murphy — Dolemite Is My Name Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in any Motion Picture Tom Hanks — A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood Anthony Hopkins — The Two Popes Al Pacino — The Irishman Joe Pesci — The Irishman Brad Pitt — Once Upon a Time … in Hollywood Best Screenplay, Motion Picture Noah Baumbach — Marriage Story Bong Joon Ho and Han Jin Won — Parasite Anthony McCarten — The Two Popes Quentin Tarantino — Once Upon a Time … in Hollywood Steven Zaillian — The Irishman Best Original Score, Motion Picture Alexandre Desplat — Little Women Hildur Gudnadottir — Joker Randy Newman — Marriage Story Thomas Newman — 1917 Daniel Pemberton — Motherless Brooklyn Best Original Song, Motion Picture “Beautiful Ghosts” — Cats “I’m Gonna Love Me Again” — Rocketman “Into the Unknown” — Frozen 2 “Spirit” — The Lion King “Stand Up” — Harriet Best Motion Picture, Animated Frozen 2 How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World The Lion King Missing Link Toy Story 4 Best Motion Picture, Foreign Language The Farewell Les Misérables Pain and Glory Parasite Portrait of a Lady on Fire Best Television Series, Drama Big Little Lies The Crown Killing Eve The Morning Show Succession Best Television Series, Musical or Comedy Barry Fleabag The Kominsky Method The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel The Politician Best Television Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television Catch-22 Chernobyl Fosse/Verdon The Loudest Voice Unbelievable Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Series, Drama Jennifer Aniston — The Morning Show Olivia Colman — The Crown Jodie Comer — Killing Eve Nicole Kidman — Big Little Lies Reese Witherspoon — The Morning Show Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Series, Musical or Comedy Christina Applegate — Dead to Me Rachel Brosnahan — The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel Kirsten Dunst — On Becoming a God in Central Florida Natasha Lyonne — Russian Doll Phoebe Waller-Bridge — Fleabag Best Performance by an Actress in a Limited Series or a Motion Picture Made for Television Kaitlyn Dever — Unbelievable Joey King — The Act Helen Mirren — Catherine the Great Merritt Wever — Unbelievable Michelle Williams — Fosse/Verdon Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Series, Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television Patricia Arquette — The Act Helena Bonham Carter — The Crown Toni Collette — Unbelievable Meryl Streep — Big Little Lies Emily Watson — Chernobyl Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series, Drama Brian Cox — Succession Kit Harington — Game of Thrones Rami Malek — Mr. Robot Tobias Menzies — The Crown Billy Porter — Pose Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series, Musical or Comedy Michael Douglas — The Kominsky Method Bill Hader — Barry Ben Platt — The Politician Paul Rudd — Living With Yourself Ramy Youssef — Ramy Best Performance by an Actor in a Limited Series or a Motion Picture Made for Television Christopher Abbott — Catch-22 Sacha Baron Cohen — The Spy Russell Crowe — The Loudest Voice Jared Harris — Chernobyl Sam Rockwell — Fosse/Verdon Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in a Series, Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television Alan Arkin — The Kominsky Method Kieran Culkin — Succession Andrew Scott — Fleabag Stellan Skarsgard — Chernobyl Henry Winkler — Barry Next Up In Film Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook