https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/13/21179291/elon-musk-coronavirus-tesla-memo-car-accident-deaths-comparison
Elon Musk underplays coronavirus threat, tells employees that car crashes are more dangerous - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Tech Health Elon Musk underplays coronavirus threat, tells employees that car crashes are more dangerous New, 99 comments Musk sent a memo to SpaceX employees scoffing at the dangers of COVID-19 By Nick Statt@nickstatt Mar 13, 2020, 7:01pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Elon Musk underplays coronavirus threat, tells employees that car crashes are more dangerous Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Win McNamee / Getty Images Elon Musk sent a memo to SpaceX employees on Friday underplaying the dangers of COVID-19, the illness caused by the novel coronavirus, which is now considered a pandemic, according to a report from BuzzFeed News. Musk’s email, sent earlier today, told employees of the space transport company that they were far more likely to die from a car crash than COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus. He also said that, based on the evidence he had seen about COVID-19, he doesn’t think it’s “within the top 100 health risks in the United States.” The email follows a tweet Musk sent last week saying “the coronavirus panic is dumb.” SpaceX did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The coronavirus panic is dumb — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) March 6, 2020 Musk’s views on the novel coronavirus pandemic are contradicted by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the World Health Organization (WHO), the latter of which declared the coronavirus a pandemic earlier this week. As BuzzFeed notes, car crashes are also not a viral infection that can spread exponentially, and health experts quoted in the report say Musk’s comments are both disingenuous and dangerous. Health officials estimate that, in a worst-case scenario, between 160 million and 214 million Americans may become infected with COVID-19 if the disease is not adequately contained in the coming weeks and months, The New York Times reports. Of those infected, as many as 1.7 million may die. Musk called coronavirus panic ‘dumb’ Additionally, tens of millions of people may require hospitalization to treat COVID-19, a situation that may overwhelm the nation’s health care and medical treatment systems. Right now, the CDC says there are 1,629 confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus and 41 deaths in the US. But due to a lack of testing, the number of cases in the US is likely to be far higher. Musk’s statements regarding COVID-19 come at a time when the auto industry, like many other sectors of the US economy, has begun restricting operations to help reduce the spread of the virus. Ford, General Motors, and Fiat Chrysler have all started instructing non-factory employees in the US to work from home, and automakers are considering the possibility of factory shutdowns in the future as the virus continues to spread and Chinese supply chain disruptions further complicate vehicle production. Tesla, Musk’s other company, did not respond to a request for comment regarding its remote work policies in response to the pandemic. But according to a leaked memo obtained by Business Insider, Tesla did tell employees to self-quarantine if they recently returned from travel to Italy, China, South Korea, Iran, Malaysia, Singapore, or Thailand. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Elon Musk underplays coronavirus threat, tells employees that car crashes are more dangerous Trump flip-flops on question of receiving a novel coronavirus test View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook