https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21050701/netgear-nighthawk-m5-5g-wi-fi-6-mobile-hotspot-router-lte-price-specs
Netgear’s Nighthawk M5 mobile hot spot combines 5G with Wi-Fi 6 - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Smart Home Tech CES 2020 News Netgear’s Nighthawk M5 mobile hot spot combines 5G with Wi-Fi 6 New, 2 comments 4 Gbps connections on the go By Dan Seifert@dcseifert Jan 6, 2020, 9:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Netgear’s Nighthawk M5 mobile hot spot combines 5G with Wi-Fi 6 Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Netgear Nighthawk M5 mobile hot spot Image: Netgear Netgear has announced the new Nighthawk M5 mobile hot spot, a full-featured 5G hot spot that will be available through carriers and in an unlocked version. In addition to supporting all versions of 5G, including both millimeter-wave and sub-6 networks, it also supports Wi-Fi 6 for devices that are connected to it. It will be available starting in May for a to-be-announced price. The M5 is not Netgear’s first 5G hot spot — that honor goes to the model it produced for AT&T business users last year — but it is the first one that will be widely available. It has Qualcomm’s X55 modem inside, and it’s able to support standalone 5G configurations once those are supported by carriers. (For now, a 4G LTE modem provides the fallback required by carriers.) Netgear claims it can support speeds up to 4 Gbps. The M5 supports all variations of 5G service In addition to supporting Wi-Fi 6 for device connections, the M5 has a built-in gigabit Ethernet port to more efficiently use its 5G speeds with a laptop or other device. A touchscreen on the front of the hot spot is used for monitoring data usage and setting configurations. The M5 isn’t Netgear’s only cellular-based announcement today. It is also announcing an Orbi mesh router with a built-in 4G LTE connection. The LTE Orbi is designed for homes that don’t have access to wired broadband services, and it has a tri-band mesh network that runs on Wi-Fi 5. Netgear says the Orbi is pre-approved for use across all of the major carriers, and it will be selling it through standard retail channels. It’s expected to be available beginning in April for $399.99. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Netgear’s Nighthawk M5 mobile hot spot combines 5G with Wi-Fi 6 Canon announces the EOS-1D X Mark III because the DSLR still isn’t dead View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook