https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/7/21055164/cooler-master-nc100-enclosure-intel-modular-gaming-pc-nuc-price-ces-2020
Cooler Master’s take on Intel’s mini modular gaming PC is the NC100 - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Tech Cooler Master has a NUC PC case that’s bigger than Intel’s but smaller than Razer’s New, 7 comments You can buy the enclosure for $199 in Q2 By Jay Peters@jaypeters Jan 7, 2020, 3:40pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Cooler Master has a NUC PC case that’s bigger than Intel’s but smaller than Razer’s Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Cooler Master Earlier today, Intel announced its new initiative for tiny modular gaming PCs that let you swap out modular CPU cartridges (what Intel calls a “NUC Element”), and some PC component makers are already throwing their support behind the initiative. Razer today announced its new Tomahawk enclosure, and Cooler Master has announced its take, called the NC100. The NC100 enclosure comes with the baseboard that’s designed to let you plug in an Intel NUC Element, and Cooler Master is throwing in one of its SFX-sized power supplies as well. Basically, all you’re getting is a computer case, a place for the computer’s brain, and a power supply for the computer. That means if you want to make a full-fledged gaming PC, you’ll have to get the rest of the parts on your own — including that NUC Element. Grid View Fortunately, it looks like the enclosure is big enough that you’ll have space to fit the full-length graphics card of your choice. (If you were curious, the case is 7.5L in volume, according to a Cooler Master rep, which means the NC100 splits the difference in size between Intel’s 5L NUC 9 Extreme enclosure and Razer’s 10L Tomahawk enclosure.) The NC100 will cost $199.99 when it ships in Q2 2020 (tentatively April, Cooler Master tells The Verge). If you just want to buy a turnkey solution for the NC100 case, though, CyberPowerPC will offer custom configurations that you can purchase. Those will have a CPU, a discrete graphics GPU from AMD or Nvidia, up to three M.2 PCIe storage slots, and up to 32GB of RAM. However, CyberPowerPC hasn’t shared pricing or expected availability for those yet. You can buy a turnkey solution for the NC100 case What Cooler Master is offering with the NC100 is pretty similar to what Razer is offering with the Tomahawk. Razer also plans to sell the Tomahawk enclosure on its own, though we don’t know what that will cost just yet. There is one key difference in Razer’s plans, though: when the Tomahawk enclosure does go on sale, Razer will only sell you the case — with the NC100, you also get a power supply and a baseboard where you can slot in the CPU — leaving it up to you to source everything else for the PC. Razer says that, this June, it will ship a full PC in the Tomahawk enclosure, like what Cooler Master and CyberPowerPC are offering with their turnkey computer. Razer is aiming for a starting price of just over $2,000 for that. Related Razer’s first desktop gaming PC is the stunning modular Tomahawk Inside Intel’s Ghost Canyon NUC, the incredibly small modular desktop PC In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Cooler Master has a NUC PC case that’s bigger than Intel’s but smaller than Razer’s Listen to The Vergecast’s first CES 2020 episode View all 176 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook