https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/31/21116500/facebook-instagram-coronavirus-misinformation-false-cures-prevention
Facebook and Instagram to remove coronavirus misinformation - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Health Facebook Facebook and Instagram to remove coronavirus misinformation Including claims about false cures or prevention By Jon Porter@JonPorty Jan 31, 2020, 5:41am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Facebook and Instagram to remove coronavirus misinformation Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Facebook will remove false claims and conspiracy theories about the coronavirus if it risks causing harm to people who believe them, the company has announced. The policy applies across both Instagram and Facebook, and includes misinformation about fake cures or prevention methods, or any claim that could confuse people about what health resources are available. Hashtags used to spread misinformation on Instagram will also be blocked or restricted. The social media company has previously agreed to limit the reach of public health misinformation — such as anti-vax conspiracy theories — but removing content entirely is much rarer. The company says it has a policy of removing content when it creates the risk of physical harm. For example, last year it agreed to remove online rumors about the polio vaccine when the rumors were putting health workers at risk in Pakistan, The Wall Street Journal reports. The announcement came after the coronavirus was declared a global public health emergency The decision came just hours after the World Health Organization declared a global public health emergency over the coronavirus outbreak. Facebook says it will rely on health organizations to flag conspiracy theories that could be harmful. There are now almost 10,000 cases of the virus confirmed globally, across as many as 19 countries, according to BBC News. In addition to removing actively harmful content related to the coronavirus, Facebook also says it will limit the spread of misinformation that’s flagged as false by its fact-checkers. It will notify people that the information could be inaccurate if they have shared or are attempting to share a flagged post. Facebook will also attempt to point users towards accurate information by placing messages at the top of Facebook’s News Feed, or providing educational popups when people make certain searches or Facebook or tap certain hashtags on Instagram. The decision to outright remove harmful misinformation sits in contrast to Facebook’s position on political falsehoods. Earlier this year, for example, the company said it would continue to allow lies to be spread via political ads, to allow political claims to be scrutinized in public, “warts and all.” Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook