https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/6/21126013/nintendo-switch-delays-production-coronavirus
Nintendo says the coronavirus is delaying Switch production  - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Nintendo Nintendo says the coronavirus is delaying Switch production New Animal Crossing model and Ring Fit Adventure affected By Sam Byford@345triangle Feb 6, 2020, 2:56am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Nintendo says the coronavirus is delaying Switch production Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge Nintendo has informed consumers in its home market of Japan that production and shipments of the Switch console and accessories will experience delays due to the effect of the new coronavirus. The Animal Crossing-themed variant of the Switch, which was only announced last week, has had its preorder availability pushed back from Saturday to an unspecified date. The company apologizes for the trouble and says it’ll keep on monitoring the situation. It’s not clear whether the delays will affect shipments elsewhere. Nintendo specifically references hardware produced in China and sold in Japan, but last year the company started diversifying its supply chain and building some units in Southeast Asia specifically for the US market to avoid US tariffs. Most Switch consoles are said to be built by Foxconn, which is keeping its Chinese factories shuttered for at least another week. [任天堂HP]「新型コロナウイルス感染症による、Nintendo Switchなどの生産および出荷への影響について（お詫び）」を掲載しました。 https://t.co/bC3ffOPXZ8 — 任天堂株式会社 (@Nintendo) February 6, 2020 Nintendo also warns that Ring Fit Adventure will experience further delays in Japan. The popular new fitness RPG, which makes use of a pilates ring-style controller, had already been selling well domestically to the point that Nintendo’s president Shuntaro Furukawa apologized to investors for the lack of supply to East Asia last week. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Nintendo says the coronavirus is delaying Switch production FDA issues emergency approval for coronavirus diagnostic test View all 322 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook