https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/3/21162783/emergency-declarations-public-health-disaster-state-local-hhs
How emergency declarations are helping governments respond to COVID-19 - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Policy Science Health How emergency declarations are helping governments respond to COVID-19 States sometimes push back on federal plans By Nicole Wetsman Updated Mar 9, 2020, 1:47pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: How emergency declarations are helping governments respond to COVID-19 Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Emergency Operations Center Photo by Smith Collection/Gado/Getty Images Part of A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic Ten US states are in states of emergency over COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus that’s sickened over 110,000 people around the world and over 500 in the US. There’s an outbreak of the virus at a nursing facility in King County, Washington, and 18 people in the state have died. Dozens of counties have also declared emergencies, and the entire country has been under a federal public health emergency since the end of January. Emergency declarations allow officials at the federal, state, and local levels to mobilize quickly and activate a menu of powers that they can use to respond to a crisis situation. “They allow expedited response efforts in ways that don’t circumvent constitutional protections,” says James Hodge, director of the Center for Public Health Law and Policy at Arizona State University. “It lets people say, we have to quarantine 100 people right now, we’ll do that.” At the federal level, a public health emergency gives the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) more flexibility to help states respond to a threat. If necessary, it also lets HHS suspend or modify some laws, like parts of the HIPAA privacy rule or laws requiring that medications only be given out in health care facilities. State and local governments, though, are where the action is, Hodge says. While the federal government took the first steps to respond to the novel coronavirus and placed people in federal quarantine for the first time in 50 years, they won’t be able to sustain those types of practices. “They’re heavily reliant on state and local authorities to do that,” he says. State and local governments are where the action is Actions available to states might vary, but they can include the ability to require people to isolate or quarantine, school or event shutdowns, and curfews. States might let medical professionals who are licensed in other places practice there or allow health care volunteers to handle low-level medical tasks under the supervision of a doctor. A state might take all or none of those steps; they’re just some of the options available. But an emergency declaration was why Washington’s King County was able to quickly purchase a motel to isolate patients with COVID-19. In San Diego County, California, a local emergency declaration increased resources for beds at local hospitals, and in Solano County, it created an operations center to facilitate screening. It’s not always the case that states have to declare an emergency to tap into additional sources of funding, though, Hodge says. “Some states might say that they’re issuing an emergency to tap into the funds,” he says, but some may be able to pull in money without one. In New York, for example, Gov. Andrew Cuomo appropriated $40 million to the state Department of Health without declaring an emergency. The types of emergencies declared determine who takes charge of a crisis. If there’s an emergency declaration made, that tends to put emergency management experts at the head, Hodge says. A public health emergency, on the other hand, puts departments of health in charge. That’s what happened at the federal level in the US, and that’s why HHS is leading the response to COVID-19. The state of Florida also declared a public health emergency. The types of emergencies declared determine who takes charge of a crisis Not all states have laws that allow for public health-specific emergencies, though. “For those states, the route is an emergency or disaster declaration,” Hodge says. In those cases, the general emergency declaration policies include health emergencies, he says. Right now, only two states have declared emergencies, but that’s likely to change as the outbreak of the novel coronavirus in the US continues to unfold. Until this week, only a very limited number of people in the US were being tested for COVID-19. Testing is set to expand as more states receive permission to run their own tests. With more testing, doctors are likely to find more cases — genetic evidence suggests the virus has probably been spreading undetected for the past few weeks in Washington state, for example. States might analyze the risks and benefits of declaring a disaster in different ways. Some might take more time to watch and wait because emergency declarations can hurt economies, Hodge says. “[Florida Gov. Ron] DeSantis knows this is going to hurt business badly. In the same vein, if you have unknown cases running around, you have to take that seriously.” Meanwhile, at the federal level, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is readying for the possibility that President Trump would make an emergency declaration, reported NBC News. That would come in addition to the public health emergency declaration at HHS, and it would bring in the agency for additional disaster support. FEMA isn’t usually called on for public health emergencies. After Hurricane Katrina, efforts to improve health response during disasters shifted responsibility for pandemic and disease response to HHS, under the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act. “HHS would have the lead and keep it, but FEMA might have a role in emergency management, but not in disease prevention,” he says. For example, they might be called on to help build quarantine facilities, if needed. This is the first real public health threat faced by the Trump administration, and Hodge says he’ll be watching closely to see how far the administration will go in their response. Conflicts between states and the federal government over response to the virus have started already and will likely continue, he says. The California city of Costa Mesa already sued to prevent people in federal quarantine at a military base from being relocated within city limits, for example. The federal government eventually scrapped the plan. Officials in San Antonio, Texas, sued the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention over the release of quarantined people as well. “We’re seeing how far the feds will go, and how the states will react,” Hodge says. “It’s going to result in some testy legal battles.” Correction March 3, 5:40PM ET: An earlier version of this story included a misspelling of King County. We regret the error. Update March 9, 1:46 PM ET: Updated with the latest number of states that have declared emergencies. A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic Virus Basics 6 Everything you need to know about the coronavirus The coronavirus could stick around, but the way we fight it will change if it does If you’re feeling nervous about the coronavirus, you’re not alone Here’s who’s most at risk from the novel coronavirus Canceling events early can help keep an outbreak from getting worse Why we’re seeing some severe COVID-19 cases among younger people Virus Response 10 Coronavirus testing shouldn’t be this complicated How cities are fighting coronavirus on public transportation The new coronavirus is not an excuse to be racist WHO declares the outbreak of the new coronavirus is a pandemic Trump signs $8.3 billion emergency coronavirus aid package Coronavirus-contaminated cruise ships mirror the global crisis All of Italy is being placed on lockdown due to coronavirus Prisons and jails are vulnerable to COVID-19 outbreaks Personal privacy matters during a pandemic — but less than it might at other times Scientists are racing to find the best drugs to treat COVID-19 How Tos 4 Everything you wanted to know about self-quarantine, from a person who’s living it A germophobe’s guide to a clean phone How to make your own hand sanitizer How to debunk COVID-19 conspiracy theories Virus Science 10 It’s going to take a lot longer to make a COVID-19 vaccine than a treatment The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is exploring at-home COVID-19 tests in Seattle How the coronavirus hitches a ride around your life The US has tested shockingly few people for the new coronavirus Continued travel bans aren’t going to stop spread of the new coronavirus Health care workers are at high risk of catching COVID-19 Stanford group wants to use your computer to help researchers study the coronavirus An experimental treatment for the new coronavirus is being tested in the US Coronavirus data from outside the outbreak epicenter is just as valuable as from the inside To fight the coronavirus, labs are printing its genome What the tech sector is doing 10 Electronics companies are getting gridlocked by coronavirus lockdowns Tech giants will keep paying hourly staff even if they are asked to stay home due to coronavirus Amazon, Google, Facebook, and Microsoft are asking Seattle-based staff to work from home because of coronavirus Postmates says it will start ‘non-contact’ meal deliveries during the coronavirus outbreak Amazon Flex drivers won’t be paid if they have to stay home due to coronavirus, but Uber’s and Lyft’s will Facebook temporarily bans ads for medical face masks to prevent coronavirus exploitation Google and Microsoft are giving away enterprise conferencing tools due to coronavirus Etsy has started cracking down on coronavirus merchandise Amazon has barred a million products for making false coronavirus claims Facebook confirms ban on misleading coronavirus ads Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook