https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21050653/gopro-karma-drone-not-flying-gps-compass-problem-glitch-grounded
GoPro Karma drones grounded worldwide, thanks to possible GPS glitch - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Drones GoPro Karma drones grounded worldwide, thanks to possible GPS glitch New, 2 comments Yes, some people are (or were) still flying them By Sean O'Kane@sokane1 Jan 5, 2020, 4:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: GoPro Karma drones grounded worldwide, thanks to possible GPS glitch Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Sean O’Kane / The Verge Owners of the GoPro Karma have been unable to fly their drones since the new year began, according to dozens of forum posts and tweets. The problem is affecting owners all around the globe, and it seems to be related to the recent so-called clock “rollovers” in the GPS and GLONASS satellite systems. While most tech companies tried to avert problems with the rollovers by issuing software updates over the last few months, GoPro has not updated the Karma since September 2018, nine months after it discontinued the drone. Multiple owners say their Karma controllers are flashing errors about not receiving a GPS signal, and that they can’t calibrate the compass. They’re not able to fly the drones at all, even after disabling GPS, though one claims to have sidestepped the issue by factory resetting the controller and turning GPS off. A GoPro spokesperson tells The Verge that the company’s engineering team is “actively troubleshooting” the issue, but didn’t offer any more information. We will definitely post an update once we hear back from our product team. Thank you for your patience and understanding. — GoPro (@GoPro) January 5, 2020 Here’s how our own James Vincent described the GPS rollover issue last year: The rollover issue itself is caused by the fact that GPS systems count weeks using a ten-bit parameter. This means they start counting at week zero and reset when they hit week 1,024. The first count (or “GPS epoch”) started on January 6th, 1980, and the first reset took place on August 21st, 1999. That means the next one is due April 6th this year. When the rollover happens older devices may reset their date, potentially corrupting navigation data and throwing off location estimates. GPS relies on precise timing data to operate, and each nanosecond the clock is out translates into a foot of location error. GLONASS has a similar problem counting days after a certain amount of time, and is said to have reset at the end of 2019 (or the start of 2020). Related Older GPS devices are facing their own mini Y2K bug next month GoPro had problems with Karma from the moment its first (and now only) drone went on sale back in 2016. Some of them were falling out of the sky just weeks after the October 2016 launch, thanks to a poorly designed battery latch, and GoPro recalled the drone on the night of the 2016 US presidential election. The company struggled to find market share with Karma once it was back on sale, but it ultimately wasn’t able to turn enough of a profit on the drone to justify keeping the program up and running. GoPro exited the drone business in January 2018 and laid off hundreds of employees who worked on Karma. The company said at the time that it would “continue to provide service and support to Karma customers,” though it never mentioned when that support might end. It’s unclear how many owners might be affected as GoPro never disclosed the total number of Karma sales before or after its discontinuation. Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook