https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/27/21197085/google-covid-19-coronavirus-ad-grants-loans-face-masks-cdc
Google aims to donate more than 2 million face masks to the CDC - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Google Tech Coronavirus Google aims to donate more than 2 million face masks to the CDC It’s also offering free ads to NGOs and small businesses By Dieter Bohn@backlon Mar 27, 2020, 1:02pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Google aims to donate more than 2 million face masks to the CDC Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Google CEO Sundar Pichai says that Google will work with a partner company, Magid Glove & Safety, to produce and donate “2-3 million face masks in the coming weeks,” according to a blog post. Once produced, Google will donate them to the CDC Foundation. The face masks are part of a larger set of initiatives Google is taking to donate both money and services to combat the coronavirus pandemic. It is granting over $250 million in “ad grants” to NGOs like the World Health Organization and “more than 100 government agencies globally.” Google also said that employees from various Alphabet divisions will be offering “engineering, supply chain and heathcare expertise” to PPE manufacturers to help them make and distribute ventilators. It’s also creating a “$200 million investment fund” that it intends to set aside for loans that will go to small businesses. A Google spokesperson tells The Verge that “In the US, Google will provide low-interest loans to small businesses through Opportunity Fund Network and other community development financial institutions (“CDFIs”).” Google is also giving away Google ad credits to small and medium businesses that it says will amount to $340 million that “can be used at any point until the end of 2020.” Ad budgets are often the first thing to go when a business is under stress, so the grants will likely help. Finally, there are various other smaller efforts, like a $10,000 match for employee donations and Google Cloud credits for academic institutions. The move comes just after Apple released an app and website devoted to providing COVID-19 and coronavirus information, including a screener quiz. One thing Google is not doing is updating its informational COVID-19 site to include screener questions or directions to local testing facilities. The new coronavirus is spreading through the US, and several states have made emergency declarations. The World Health Organization has declared it a pandemic. Here are the basics: Everything you need to know about the coronavirus Google, of course, was at the center of a week-long controversy over whether it would launch a website that would live up to President Donald Trump’s original promise on March 13th. He had said that Google’s site would allow you to answer screener questions and then be directed to a local drive-through testing facility. That was not true and is not true today. After a delay, Google launched an informational site on March 21st, but it did not have a screener quiz or a way to find testing. Instead, it linked to general coronavirus information and local state resources. Google’s sister company, Verily, did launch a site that hewed a little closer to the original promise, but it was limited to the Bay Area and was filled up so quickly that it stopped offering services within 24 hours of its launch. It has since expanded to Riverside and Sacramento counties. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Google aims to donate more than 2 million face masks to the CDC Apple launches COVID-19 screening app and website View all 322 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook