https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21048085/art-club
Oral-B and Colgate smart toothbrushes: an idea that refuses to die - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News Circuit Breaker The smart toothbrush is an idea that refuses to die New, 11 comments Get more information about your brushing habits than you ever needed By Dami Lee and Nicole Wetsman Jan 5, 2020, 8:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: The smart toothbrush is an idea that refuses to die Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Oral-B CES means there’s no shortage of “smart” connected gadgets, and toothbrushes are no exception. Oral-B and Colgate are launching new smart toothbrushes this year: the Oral-B iO and the Colgate Plaqless Pro Toothbrush. Oral-B has released several smart toothbrushes before, like the $220 Oral-B Genius X, which used sensor data and an “AI algorithm” to give suggestions on where to focus on brushing. The Oral-B iO also claims it has artificial intelligence and algorithms to “facilitate achieving perfect brushing results in all 16 zones for superior oral health,” which is just marketing nonsense using AI as a buzzword. This time, the iO has added a new “magnetic drive,” which is responsible for the microvibrations of the bristles. The iO has seven different brushing modes, and it connects to the mobile Oral-B app via Bluetooth to give users feedback on their brushing performance. It’s got 12.5 days of battery life, takes three hours to charge fully, and operates at 145Hz movement speed. The Oral-B iO and app Colgate released its first E1 smart toothbrush in 2018, which was (surprisingly) an Apple Store exclusive. Its new smart toothbrush will detect buildup — presumably plaque and other bacterial films that stick to teeth — and it claims it will help improve user brushing by “providing precise information in real time that is specific to each mouth.” It’s not clear how, exactly, the brush senses that buildup or how that information will be used to make you brush better. The Colgate Plaqless Pro There’s no pricing or release information for either toothbrush yet, so you can hold on to those free toothbrushes you get from the dentist for now. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns The smart toothbrush is an idea that refuses to die Suunto’s first Wear OS smartwatch is taking on Garmin with outdoor offline maps View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook