https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/4/21122081/foxconn-coronavirus-close-factories-big-tech
iPhone maker Foxconn will stay shut in China for another week at least - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Apple Science Tech iPhone maker Foxconn will stay shut in China for another week at least New, 2 comments Coronavirus threatens to disrupt Big Tech By Thomas Ricker@Trixxy Feb 4, 2020, 6:51am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: iPhone maker Foxconn will stay shut in China for another week at least Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge Foxconn has stopped “almost all” of its production in China until February 10th at the earliest due to the coronavirus outbreak, according to both Reuters and Bloomberg. A lengthy stoppage could substantially disrupt Foxconn clients, the most visible being Apple, from shipping devices to customers. Last week, Apple CEO Tim Cook told investors that the company’s revenue projections for the upcoming quarter reflected a delay in reopening production facilities. Apple also closed its stores and offices through February 9th. Half of the world’s iPhones are said to be made at Foxconn’s “iPhone City” in Zhengzhou, China, where as many as 350,000 people work side-by-side to assemble Apple’s most profitable product. Nearly all of the world’s iPhones are made in China, most by Foxconn, some by Pegatron. 350,000 people working side-by-side China had extended the Lunar New Year holiday in much of the country with factories expected to reopen on February 3rd. That date was extended until February 10th on Monday. Manufacturers’ ability to reopen their factories is dependent upon approval from central and provincial governments. The coronavirus outbreak was declared a global health emergency by the World Health Organization, and threatens to upend the global supply chain, already in turmoil after the US vs. China trade war. The virus has infected more than 20,000 people, 400 of whom have died. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline iPhone maker Foxconn will stay shut in China for another week at least Formula E cancels race in China because of the coronavirus outbreak View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook