https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/6/21126637/art-club
US attorney general says tech and telecom industries should invest in Huawei competitors - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Policy Business US & World US attorney general says tech and telecom industries should invest in Huawei competitors New, 2 comments To push back against the dominance of the Chinese firm By Nick Statt@nickstatt Feb 6, 2020, 2:40pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: US attorney general says tech and telecom industries should invest in Huawei competitors Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge The Trump administration’s latest suggestion for combating the dominance of Chinese telecom giant Huawei: invest in its European competitors. The idea comes from US Attorney General William Barr, a former top lawyer for Verizon, who floated the notion of pushing members of the technology and telecom industries to invest in Ericsson and Nokia when speaking to a crowd at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, DC on Thursday, according to The Wall Street Journal. The move represents yet more escalation in Trump’s increasingly ugly standoff with Huawei, a Chinese corporation many of the world’s tech and telecom companies rely on for vital hardware and software that forms the backbone of cell networks and other communications infrastructure. Yet Huawei is also a company the US intelligence industry deems a national security threat due to its alleged ties to the Chinese government, ties Huawei denies. (Not in dispute is the fact that Huawei was helped significantly in its path to becoming a global telecom juggernaut, thanks to investments and market advantages handed out by Beijing.) “Putting our large market and financial muscle behind one or both of these firms would make it a more formidable competitor.” “Some propose that these concerns could be met by the United States aligning itself with Nokia and/or Ericsson through American ownership of a controlling stake, either directly or through a consortium of private American and allied companies,” Barr said, referencing the Nordic tech firms that have long had direct business ties to Silicon Valley. (Microsoft and Nokia have been intertwined for years after the Windows maker purchased Nokia’s phone division.) “Putting our large market and financial muscle behind one or both of these firms would make it a more formidable competitor and eliminate concerns over its staying power.” The concern is that Huawei’s current advantages, both from a technical and a market perspective, mean that the US will either fall far behind the rest of the world in the rollout of next-generation 5G networks or that companies will buckle and opt for Huawei equipment to keep pace. In the US, which has banned companies for doing business with Huawei with an executive order slated to go into effect next month, it seems more likely the country would fall behind while trying to build out its own 5G hardware and software alternatives while Asia and Europe march forward. The UK has already defied the US’s insistence that its allies not use Huawei equipment by allowing all four of its telecoms to do so in absence of a viable alternative. The reversal made US President Donald Trump “apoplectic” in a phone call with UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson last week, the Financial Times reports. Trump became furious with Boris Johnson over the UK’s defiance of his Huawei order The US is considering a number of approaches to combat Huawei’s dominance. Lawmakers have drafted a bill to fund domestic alternatives to Huawei, while the White House is pushing the tech and telecom industries in the US to develop a universal standard for 5G that would let network code run on any piece of equipment, a plan Barr says may be too slow to work. “This is just pie in the sky,” he said. “This approach is completely untested and would take many years to get off the ground, and would not be ready for prime time for a decade, if ever.” Barr’s new suggestion is slightly more radical and a peculiar one coming from a top Justice Department official, considering it is not the role of the DOJ to direct policy related to communications networks. Regardless, Barr is suggesting that a faster way to compete with Huawei would be to fund Sweden-based Ericsson and Finland-based Nokia, both of which are Huawei’s biggest competitors on the global market. That way, US and European firms could begin locking out Huawei and reducing dependence on the Chinese firm’s best-in-class networking hardware. According to the WSJ, the White House is even mulling over formalizing federal incentives for US private equity firms to buy up stakes in Ericsson and Nokia. In This Stream Huawei vs. Trump: all the news about the Chinese phone maker’s messy relationship with the US Living a Google-free life with a Huawei phone US attorney general says tech and telecom industries should invest in Huawei competitors US pushing tech and telecom industries to build 5G alternative to Huawei View all 96 stories Next Up In Policy Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook