https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21048587/lamborghini-rivian-amazon-alexa-integration-cars-ces-2020
Lamborghini and Rivian are the latest automakers to add Amazon’s Alexa to their cars - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Transportation CES 2020 News Lamborghini and Rivian are the latest automakers to add Amazon’s Alexa to their cars New, 1 comment ‘Alexa, how can I afford a supercar?’ By Andrew J. Hawkins@andyjayhawk Jan 6, 2020, 9:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Lamborghini and Rivian are the latest automakers to add Amazon’s Alexa to their cars Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Tamara Warren / The Verge Alexa is going ultra-luxury and fully electric. Amazon announced that its popular voice assistant will be added to a handful of new vehicles. Automobili Lamborghini is bringing Alexa to its Huracán Evo, and buzzy EV startup Rivian will integrate Alexa into its first two all-electric vehicles, the R1S SUV and R1T pickup truck, as well as its upcoming fleet of 100,000 all-electric Amazon delivery vans. Amazon says that both integrations will be available starting this year, alongside previously announced Alexa experiences rolling out from General Motors and Volkswagen. Amazon says that both integrations will be available starting this year Lamborghini and Rivian are the latest companies to partner with Jeff Bezos’ tech giant. Only a few — Toyota, BMW, Ford, and Audi — have announced direct Alexa integration with their infotainment systems, and not all of them struck deals for every model. It’s a risky bet for car companies, which have struggled to develop their own in-car voice assistants that can live up to the standards set by Amazon. Once activated, drivers can use Alexa to get navigation information, play music or podcasts, or make phone calls. They can also link up with another Echo device in their home and tell Alexa to turn on their lights or adjust the temperature. Related Amazon Echo Auto review: So... how dumb is your car? For those who lack the coin to purchase a $268,000 supercar or a time machine to travel to the future and acquire a yet-to-be-released Rivian EV, Amazon has a few other announcements. Echo Auto, the company’s matchbox-sized dashboard solution for vehicles without Alexa integration, is expanding internationally. Amazon says it will begin selling the aftermarket device in India in January and in other countries later this year. Alexa will also have a few new tricks up its virtual sleeve. Later this year, customers will be able to say, “Alexa, pay for gas” to purchase fuel at any Exxon and Mobil gas stations. The transaction is made through Amazon Pay and powered by Fiserv, a global financial services technology provider. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Lamborghini and Rivian are the latest automakers to add Amazon’s Alexa to their cars Mophie looks to the car to expand its line of batteries View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook