https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/11/21124098/samsung-galaxy-z-flip-buy-pre-order-foldable-phone-price-date
Samsung Galaxy Z Flip: how to preorder, price, and carriers - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile How-to Reviews How to preorder the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip Preorders start today, and the foldable will ship on February 14th By Cameron Faulkner@camfaulkner Feb 11, 2020, 3:46pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: How to preorder the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Samsung announced the new foldable Galaxy Z Flip during the company’s Unpacked 2020 event, and you won’t have to wait very long to get your chance at buying one. It will be available for purchase starting this Friday, February 14th — a week before preorders for the Galaxy S20 phones even start. In case you were really striking out on Valentine’s Day gift ideas, here’s one on the house. So far, only AT&T and Sprint have confirmed availability of the Galaxy Z Flip through its respective sites and physical retail locations. As for pricing, AT&T shared that it will cost $46 per month for 30 months and it costs $57.50 for its 18-month loan, and while we don’t have a price for the unlocked version of the foldable phone through Samsung, that puts it at $1,380 for the total cost. Both Sprint and AT&T claim that supply of the Z Flip will be limited and both encourage that you buy one online instead of trying to come into one of its stores. Sprint hasn’t yet provided availability details for the Z Flip in its stores. AT&T will sell the phone at select stores in Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, and New York City. We’ll be updating this post as more carriers and retailers offer preorders. Samsung Galaxy Z Flip Preorder at AT&T Visit AT&T Samsung Galaxy Z Flip Preorder at Sprint Visit Sprint Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy. In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 How to preorder the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip Samsung Galaxy Z Flip first look: folding glass changes everything View all 54 stories Next Up In Reviews Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook