https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/7/21054748/art-club
TiVo gets into the streaming fight with the new $69 Stream 4K - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News TiVo gets into the streaming fight with the new $69 Stream 4K New, 28 comments It’ll rely on Sling TV for a DVR feature By Chaim Gartenberg@cgartenberg Jan 7, 2020, 2:10pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: TiVo gets into the streaming fight with the new $69 Stream 4K Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email TiVo’s latest TV product isn’t much of a TiVo at all — at least, not a TiVo like customers are used to, with a focus on DVR recordings of live TV that allows users to skip commercials. Instead, the new $69.99 TiVo Stream 4K is an HDMI dongle designed to compete with products like the Fire TV, Chromecast, or Roku Streaming Stick. There’s no traditional DVR or access to cable or over-the-air television in the TiVo Stream 4K. Instead, TiVo is relying on a partnership with Sling TV for its over-the-top live TV service and DVR to fill that role. The plus side to that is there are no TiVo service fees for recording TV. The downside is that you will have to pay for a regular Sling TV subscription, which costs $30 to $45 per month and effectively negates those savings. TiVo is relying on a partnership with Sling TV In addition, the TiVo Stream 4K will include access to TiVo Plus, TiVo’s free streaming content network that it launched late last year. The offerings there are about on par with what you’d expect from the phrase “free streaming content network from TiVo,” with access to things like Complex, The Asylum, USA Today, Cheddar, Bon Appétit, GQ, Wired, Tastemade, and Funny or Die. There is still a channel guide of sorts that’s populated with content from Sling TV’s live service and TiVo Plus. But the TiVo Stream 4K runs a modified version of Android TV, so the bulk of your content will likely come from the usual set of apps, including Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, HBO, YouTube, and Vudu. TiVo’s interface will allow you to search directly for content and then surface it in the relevant app, much like the Apple TV and Fire TV allow. That sounds potentially useful, even if it’s not necessarily a new feature. As for the hardware itself, the Stream 4K is effectively a rectangular-shaped version of a Chromecast that plugs directly into an HDMI port with support for Dolby Atmos and Dolby Vision HDR. There’s also a requisite Micro USB port for power and a smaller version of the classic TiVo peanut remote included. The TiVo Stream 4K will go on sale in April. It’ll cost $49.99 as a limited time initial price point, and it will eventually cost $69.99 full price In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns TiVo gets into the streaming fight with the new $69 Stream 4K LIDAR sensors aren’t just for self-driving cars anymore View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook