https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21048282/elgato-4k-60-s-external-capture-card-ps4-xbox-pc-live-streaming-price
Elgato’s new 4K 60 S+ capture card is a much easier way to stream 4K HDR 60fps - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Tech Elgato’s new external capture card is a much easier way to stream 4K HDR 60 fps New, 7 comments Get HDR gameplay from your PS4 Pro, Xbox One X, or PC By Jon Porter@JonPorty Jan 6, 2020, 12:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Elgato’s new external capture card is a much easier way to stream 4K HDR 60 fps Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Corsair Elgato’s 4K 60 S+ is a new capture card that promises to make it much easier to record and stream your gameplay at the highest possible quality, meaning it can record 4K HDR at 60 fps from your PS4, PC, or Xbox One. It can either record directly to an SD card, connect to a PC over USB 3.0 to let you to live stream, or record directly to your hard drive using its external processing power instead of tapping into your computer’s gaming performance. The device, which was announced by parent company Corsair at CES today, will be available later in the month for $399.99. This isn’t the first time the Corsair-owned streaming hardware company has produced a device capable of recording 4K gameplay at 60 fps. However, until now, in order to capture your footage at the highest possible resolution and frame rate you’ve had to use an internal capture card like the 4K60 Pro, which needs to be installed inside a PC and plugged directly into a free PCIe slot. External capture devices are much easier to set up — you just plug in your HDMI cables and optional USB cable and away you go — but Elgato’s previous external cards have topped out at 1080p at 60 fps, or 4K at 30 fps. Elgato’s device can record directly to an SD card. Image: Corsair It works across PS4, PC, and Xbox One. Image: Corsair Although you have the option of recording footage directly to an SD card, plugging the Elgato 4K 60 S+ into a PC unlocks a few more pieces of functionality. As well as letting you live stream, you also get access to Elgato’s software features like Flashback Recording, which lets you save gameplay retroactively after something noteworthy happens, and Live Commentary, which lets you record microphone audio as a separate track. Elgato’s 4K 60 S+ may be one of the first external capture cards that can handle 4K recording at 60 fps, but it may be about to face some competition from AVerMedia, which recently teased an external 4K60 capture device of its own. Elgato’s new Key Light Air is a smaller version of its existing Key Light. Image: Corsair In addition to the new external streaming card, Elgato has also announced a new $129.99 version of its LED Key Light called the Key Light Air, which is designed to be used by streamers to keep themselves well illuminated while streaming. Parent company Corsair also has a new mechanical keyboard it’s announcing at the show, the $199.99 K95 Platinum RGB XT, which features macro keys that integrate directly with Elgato’s Stream Deck software. Finally, Corsair has also announced a new $99.99 CPU cooler called the A500, its first new air cooler in five years. Corsair tells me it expects its new lineup to become available throughout the course of this month. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Elgato’s new external capture card is a much easier way to stream 4K HDR 60 fps JBL’s first Dolby Atmos soundbar includes battery-powered rear wireless speakers View all 176 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook