https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21046677/mophie-powerstation-go-car-battery-wireless-charging-price-ces-2020
Mophie looks to the car to expand its line of batteries - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News Circuit Breaker Mophie looks to the car to expand its line of batteries The Powerstation Go will charge your phone and jump-start your car By Ashley Carman@ashleyrcarman Jan 6, 2020, 8:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Mophie looks to the car to expand its line of batteries Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Mophie Mophie is expanding its battery portfolio in an effort to conquer the car and, well, sell more batteries. The company announced its Powerstation Go today, a portable battery that can jump-start a car while also wirelessly charging your phone. It’s available in six colors: black, cobalt, pink, brown, gold, and sapphire, and it costs $159.95. It goes on sale on January 9th. The 44,400mWh battery supports Qi-enabled devices and includes a 65W AC output and two USB-A charging ports. It also comes with two 14-inch mini jumper cables that connect to the battery through an EC5 port. The downside of these cables is that they’re proprietary and only work with Mophie’s battery, which means you can’t use third-party cables to jump-start a car from this battery. Hopefully you have them on hand if your car breaks down! It takes nine hours to fully charge the Powerstation Go, which requires more than a 50 percent charge to jump-start a car. Portable batteries specifically designed to jump-start cars are nothing new, of course, and other brands are also beginning to market their products as charge-everything devices. They position their batteries as capable of charging any gadget, including phones, wireless earbuds, and tablets. In an emergency, having a battery to charge your phone seems infinitely more useful than one that solely jump-starts a car. Mophie’s expansion into the car space makes sense given that it’s already well-known for its battery cases and smaller portable batteries. Mophie needs to keep expanding its lineup to keep selling batteries, and the car is a good place to focus. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Mophie looks to the car to expand its line of batteries This walking package-delivery robot is now for sale View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook