https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21047100/art-club
Impossible Foods is launching Impossible Pork and Impossible Sausage - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Tech CES 2020 News Impossible Foods is launching plant-based pork and sausage this year New, 72 comments You can try Impossible Sausage at select Burger King restaurants soon By Jay Peters@jaypeters Jan 6, 2020, 8:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Impossible Foods is launching plant-based pork and sausage this year Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email The plant-based Impossible Burger 2.0 was one of the biggest hits of CES 2019, and Impossible is back at CES this year with two new meat substitutes: the new Impossible Pork and Impossible Sausage, the latter of which was first announced last year. Pork is the most eaten meat in the world, making Impossible Pork a notable addition to Impossible’s lineup. Pork made up more than 36 percent of the world’s meat intake in 2012, according to United Nations data. (Cattle and buffaloes made up 22.2 percent of the world’s meat intake, by contrast). Pork is also especially popular in China, making Impossible Pork an important product for the company’s global expansion. Like the Impossible Burger, both Impossible Pork and Impossible Sausage are gluten free, have no animal hormones or antibiotics, and are designed for halal and kosher certification. And Impossible Pork and Impossible Sausage both use soy as their main ingredient, and each contain heme, a genetically engineered yeast that makes the Impossible meat substitutes look and taste like meat, according to Bloomberg. Impossible Pork and Sausage are gluten free and have no animal hormones or antibiotics It’s unclear when or where you’ll be able to buy Impossible Pork in the near future, as Impossible hasn’t yet shared details about when it might be available. You might be able to try out Impossible Sausage sometime soon, though — and in fact, you might already have. Impossible first announced it last May and you could initially buy it as a pizza topping at select Little Caesars restaurants. And if you live in Savannah, Georgia; Lansing, Michigan; Springfield, Illinois; Albuquerque, New Mexico; and Montgomery, Alabama, Impossible says you’ll be able to try the Impossible Sausage starting January 13th at one of 139 Burger King restaurants in those areas on a limited-time Impossible Croissan’wich, which is Burger King’s brand-friendly name for its breakfast sandwich. Impossible Foods’ partnership with Burger King is nothing new, as the two companies have seen great success with the Impossible Whopper, which was first available at 59 US Burger King locations and expanded with a nationwide rollout to more than 7,000 stores just four months later. Impossible isn’t the first to release a plant-based sausage, though, as competitor Beyond Meat has offered Beyond Sausage since 2018, and you can try it right now at Dunkin’ on the Beyond Sausage Sandwich or buy it in grocery stores. (Impossible just started its grocery store rollout back in September with local Gelson’s Markets in Southern California.) Both companies are working to make their meat substitutes available not only at more restaurants around the country, but also in as many different formats as possible. You can now also buy Impossible Burgers at White Castle, for example, and Carl’s Jr. offers a burger based on a Beyond Meat patty. Related Burger King’s nationwide rollout of the Impossible Whopper starts next week Impossible Foods is making meat-free sausage, and Little Caesars is putting it on pizza In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Impossible Foods is launching plant-based pork and sausage this year AMD just admitted it showed us a fake Xbox Series X render View all 176 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook