https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/3/21048357/art-club
Apple now lets you engrave a poop emoji on your AirPods case - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Apple Tech Headphones Apple now lets you engrave a poop emoji on your AirPods case New, 10 comments Or you can pick from one of 30 other options By Jay Peters@jaypeters Jan 3, 2020, 1:07pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Apple now lets you engrave a poop emoji on your AirPods case Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Apple has long offered the option to engrave text on select products purchased through its online store. And now, you’re able to engrave emoji onto the company’s AirPods cases, too (via MacRumors). Apple only lets you engrave a limited set of emoji, but there are some pretty fun options, including the fist bump, all of the Zodiac animals, and the poop emoji. Here are all of the emoji that you can engrave: Unfortunately, Apple won’t let you engrave both text and emoji on your AirPods case; you have to pick one or the other. But if you only get text engraved on the case, it appears Apple has made the engraved font significantly larger than it was before. Hopefully, Apple will add more emoji choices in the future (perhaps the waffle or yawning face emoji?). Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook