https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/6/21127027/art-club
The Outer Worlds Switch release delayed due to the coronavirus  - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Coronavirus The Outer Worlds Switch release delayed due to the coronavirus New, 7 comments It will, however, be getting a physical cartridge now By Megan Farokhmanesh@Megan_Nicolett Feb 6, 2020, 4:50pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: The Outer Worlds Switch release delayed due to the coronavirus Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Video game publisher Private Division is delaying its Nintendo Switch port of Obsidian Entertainment’s The Outer Worlds due to the coronavirus outbreak. The company announced the news today via Twitter, adding that the virus is “impacting the Virtuos team working on the port,” and that they’d like to give them enough time to properly finish development. The physical version will now be released via cartridge, too, following complaints over the boxed Switch product containing only a download code. The coronavirus continues to have unexpected consequences on the game industry. Earlier today, Nintendo told customers in Japan that production and shipments would be delayed due to supplies produced in China. That includes the highly anticipated Animal Crossing-themed console. Obsidian’s first-person RPG was originally expected to launch on Switch March 6th. We’re delaying @OuterWorlds on Nintendo Switch due to the coronavirus impacting the Virtuos team working on the port, to provide them enough time to finish development. We’ll now be releasing the physical version on cartridge. Once we have a new launch date, we’ll let you know! — Private Division (@PrivateDivision) February 6, 2020 In a followup tweet, Private Division added that the Virtuos team is fine, “but their office has remained closed during this time. We’re working with the team to determine an updated development timeline, and will share more regarding a new launch date shortly.” Virtuos, which developed the Switch versions of games like Dark Souls: Remastered and Final Fantasy XII: The Zodiac Age, is a company game developers and publishers contract to help them develop ports, and a number of its employees are based in the Chinese cities of Chengdu and Xi’an. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline The Outer Worlds Switch release delayed due to the coronavirus Nintendo says the coronavirus is delaying Switch production View all 322 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook