https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/7/21050763/art-club
Atmos Faceware makes clean air an expensive accessory  - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Tech CES 2020 News Atmos Faceware makes clean air an expensive accessory Climate change is a new target for personal technology By Nicole Wetsman Jan 7, 2020, 11:41am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Atmos Faceware makes clean air an expensive accessory Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Ao Air Ao Air’s Atmos Faceware is positioning itself as a tech-driven solution to increasing levels of air pollution in a world that’s literally and figuratively burning. But the $350 gadget, which just debuted at CES, may be beyond the price range of people who are most vulnerable to the very problem its seeking to address. Breathing in pollutant-filled air is dangerous: it can exacerbate asthma and other respiratory conditions, and can increase risk for stroke, heart disease, and some cancers. People enduring the bushfires in Australia, or who survived California’s intense wildfire seasons have to contend with not only the flames, but dangerous smoke as well. And even areas far from wildfires sometimes contend with air choked with tiny, harmful particles. Atmos Faceware wants to be the solution to people’s air quality concerns. The company commissioned its own study that found the mask provided better protection against particulate matter than standard air filter masks certified by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). (The study has not been published, and has not been peer reviewed.) Ao Air bills it as a new solution to air pollution protection: unlike most face masks and other respirators, the Atmos Faceware does not require an airtight seal to be effective, according to the company press release. Facial hair, sweat, and other factors that can normally disrupt a seal don’t hinder Faceware’s function, the company says. Wearing Atmos Faceware is also being pushed as a design choice, as well as a health one: “Our transparent design rests on the bridge of your nose, allowing others to see your face including your smile,” wrote Ao Air in their press release. It’s also an expensive choice: the mask, along with four extra filters, will eventually retail for $350, according to a spokesperson. Only a “limited number” of the masks are currently available for presale during CES. For comparison, a N95 mask, the most common NIOSH-certified mask, goes for around $15. Air filters are becoming more popular as the world heats up. Climate change is only going to make fire seasons longer and more intense, increasing the number of days with high levels of air pollution from wildfires. Fires aren’t the only way climate change affects pollution levels, either: hotter temperatures can mean more stagnant air, and more ozone clogging the air near the ground. Against that grim backdrop, turning protection against the impacts of global climate change into an expensive accessory and status symbol is a natural target for personal technology. Even before author Naomi Klein coined the term “disaster capitalism” in 2007, companies have been moving in to capitalize on people’s concern over natural disasters and poor environmental conditions. Air filtering masks have been fashion items in China and India for years, and companies have been poking at the edges of the American market. It might be that masks go the same way as luxury sunglasses, wrote Rose Eveleth at Vox this spring. “Like sunglasses, some masks will be cheap and not really work to protect you, while others will be expensive, luxurious items that you keep for years,” she wrote. Wealthier people already breathe in cleaner air — air pollution tends to be concentrated in low income areas — and bear less of the burden of environmental problems, natural disasters, and climate change. Even if high-tech face masks give better protection against the health effects of air pollution, they’ll only add to climate-related inequalities if they’re only available to people who can afford the price tag. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Atmos Faceware makes clean air an expensive accessory The best part of the OnePlus Concept One isn’t the disappearing camera View all 176 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook