https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21052034/art-club
TCL’s new soundbar uses reflectors for more immersive Dolby Atmos audio - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News TCL’s new soundbar uses reflectors for more immersive Dolby Atmos audio New, 4 comments One of the first Roku TV Ready soundbars By Chris Welch@chriswelch Jan 6, 2020, 3:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: TCL’s new soundbar uses reflectors for more immersive Dolby Atmos audio Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: TCL During its CES 2020 keynote today, TCL announced the Alto 9 Plus Dolby Atmos soundbar, which is among the first to offer full integration with Roku TV televisions. If you own a Roku TV, you can control the soundbar using the TV’s remote, but you can also dig into advanced settings and switch between audio modes through on-screen menus. A Roku TV isn’t required to use this soundbar, however. It comes with its own standalone remote for any TV you’ve already got in the house. The Alto 9 Plus uses what TCL calls Ray-Danz reflector technology to provide a wide soundstage that delivers powerful sound across your entire living room. Acoustic reflectors aren’t any kind of breakthrough for speakers, but putting them into a soundbar is a pretty clever idea. Just look at all of the empty space to the left and right of the main speaker array in the middle. Those curved areas are where audio gets reflected and bounced around your room. Image: TCL The Alto 9 Plus isn’t going to win any design awards; it very much looks like a piece of home theater kit. But the Ray-Danz technology actually works and results in an impressive surround effect that should cover the entirety of most average-sized living rooms. Atmos demo content really did feel like it was coming from every direction, and there’s even a slight sense of audio above you. TCL has built in a dedicated center channel that focuses on voices and dialogue to make sure those never get lost in the mix. The new flagship TCL soundbar will come with a bundled subwoofer; the company knows full well that’s mandatory for a full, satisfactory sound experience. You can expect the Alto 9 Plus to ship sometime in the coming months. Related TCL is finally getting into the phone game with its own name In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns TCL’s new soundbar uses reflectors for more immersive Dolby Atmos audio LG’s CES press conference tried to convince us of its AI future View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook