https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/7/21127731/art-club
iPhone maker Foxconn tells Shenzhen staff not to return to work - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science US & World Tech iPhone maker Foxconn tells Shenzhen staff not to return to work New, 5 comments As it ramps up production on medical face masks By Jon Porter@JonPorty Feb 7, 2020, 7:18am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: iPhone maker Foxconn tells Shenzhen staff not to return to work Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by VCG/VCG via Getty Images iPhone manufacturer Foxconn has told employees at its Shenzhen HQ not to return to work on February 10th as planned, but to await further instruction, Bloomberg reports. Meanwhile, a Foxconn subsidiary has refitted production lines in Shenzhen to make medical face masks for Foxconn workers, according to Reuters. Both developments are meant to protect Foxconn workers and help prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Foxconn manufactures the majority of its iPhones in a separate location north of Shenzhen, in Zhengzhou, while others are assembled by Pegatron outside of Shanghai. Only a small amount are made by Foxconn in Shenzhen. Bloomberg says it’s unclear if the Shenzhen policy extends to Foxconn’s other facilities. “We urge you not to return to Shenzhen” “To safeguard everyone’s health and safety and comply with government virus prevention measures, we urge you not to return to Shenzhen,” the company wrote in a text message to employees, and seen by Bloomberg, “We’ll update you on the situation in the city. The company will protect everyone’s work-related rights and interests in the duration.” Foxconn has also refit some of its production lines to produce medical face masks, according to Reuters. The masks will initially be produced for use by its hundreds of thousands of employees, but by the end of the month the company hopes to be making two million masks a day. As a major iPhone manufacturing partner, and China’s largest private employer, Foxconn’s handling of the coronavirus outbreak is seen as a key indicator of what impact the virus could have on the tech industry. Foxconn’s Zhengzhou facility is meant to return to production on February 10th, although the company had said that employees returning from outside the province will be sequestered for 14 days, reports Bloomberg. Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook