https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/9/21171314/art-club
Call of Duty: Warzone is a free battle royale that launches tomorrow - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Tech Call of Duty: Warzone is a free battle royale that launches tomorrow New, 12 comments It has a fun 1-vs-1 twist By Tom Warren@tomwarren Mar 9, 2020, 1:14pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Call of Duty: Warzone is a free battle royale that launches tomorrow Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email A new Call of Duty battle royale game is arriving tomorrow to compete with PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds, Fortnite, and Apex Legends. Call of Duty: Warzone is a new free-to-play battle royale that will be available to play on March 10th with some unique twists. There have been many Warzone leaks in recent weeks, but the game is officially arriving tomorrow, and you won’t even need Call of Duty: Modern Warfare to download and play since it’s free for everyone. Much like Apex Legends, players will be able to form squads of three across PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC. Warzone will also include cross-progression and cross-play so friends on any system can play together. Vehicles in Call of Duty: Warzone. There are two modes: traditional Battle Royale and a Plunder mode. Up to 150 players will duke it out in the Battle Royale mode, with gas chasing them for the closing circle. In Plunder, players will need to collect the most cash from looting items across the map, stealing enemies’ cash, or completing in-game Contracts. Warzone is set in a giant city dubbed Verdansk, with more than 300 points of interest and landmarks for looting. You’ll also be able to use vehicles to transport around the map, including an ATV, rover, SUV, cargo truck, and even a helicopter. One of the most unique parts of Warzone is a 1-vs-1 respawn mechanic. Dubbed Gulag, it allows players who have died to respawn if they win a 1-vs-1 battle. If your teammates are also part of the Gulag queue, they can spectate the fight from a balcony and even assist by throwing rocks at opponents to stun them. Players will be able to enter the Gulag if their teammates have completed enough Contracts or earned enough in-game cash to redeploy them. 1-vs-1 in the Goulag A variety of Contracts will exist in Warzone, including simple scavenger missions to open supply boxes or ones to secure locations against enemies. Some Contracts even reward unique perks in the game like the ability to see the next circle collapse location before the ring starts to close. Cash can also be used to purchase items at specific buy stations on the map, and you can purchase killstreaks, redeploy tokens for teammates, self-revive kits, and more. Call of Duty: Warzone will be available across PS4, Xbox One, and PC tomorrow starting at 10AM PT / 1PM ET for Modern Warfare owners and 12PM PT / 3PM ET for everyone else. If you already own Modern Warfare and you have it installed, the download for Warzone will be between 18GB and 22GB. For everyone else, the game will be an 83GB to 101GB download. Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook