https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/7/21127872/art-club
ZTE beats Samsung to announcing the first Snapdragon 865 phone - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech ZTE beats Samsung to announcing the first Snapdragon 865 phone New, 4 comments But the Galaxy S20 might still ship to consumers first By Chris Welch@chriswelch Feb 7, 2020, 10:16am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: ZTE beats Samsung to announcing the first Snapdragon 865 phone Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: ZTE Just days before Samsung is set to announce the Galaxy S20 series of phones, ZTE has jumped out ahead of the company and formally unveiled the Axon 10S Pro. Like Samsung’s upcoming devices, ZTE’s latest includes Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 865 chipset. But there’s no indication that ZTE will actually ship the Axon 10S Pro before the S20 lineup hits shelves, so which company really deserves the useless designation of “first” is really up to you. The new Axon looks very similar to ZTE’s last flagship. Specs include a curved 6.47-inch FHD+ OLED screen (with a minimal notch at top center), 256GB of UFS 3.0 flash storage, and up to 12GB of RAM. Android Central says ZTE’s phone is the first with LPDDR5 RAM. Not only does the 10S have Qualcomm’s latest and fastest processor (up to 25 percent faster than the Snapdragon 855), but ZTE says its AI-powered optimizations should consistently keep the phone running at its best. It’s also got a 4,000mAh battery inside. ZTE has outfitted the Axon 10S Pro with a triple-camera system. The primary camera has a 48-megapixel sensor, which is complemented by 20MP ultrawide and 8MP telephoto cameras. The Axon 10S Pro is 5G-ready and also supports Wi-Fi 6. It’ll ship running Android 10 out of the box, but we don’t know exactly when that will be — or how much the phone will cost. Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook