https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21051541/art-club
The 14-inch dual-screen Asus ZenBook Duo is smaller, lighter, and less powerful - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Microsoft Tech CES 2020 News The 14-inch dual-screen Asus ZenBook Duo is smaller, lighter, and less powerful New, 3 comments Plus, updated VivoBook S laptops with 10th Gen Intel chips By Chaim Gartenberg@cgartenberg Jan 6, 2020, 10:23am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: The 14-inch dual-screen Asus ZenBook Duo is smaller, lighter, and less powerful Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Asus’ ZenBook Pro Duo was one of the most interesting-looking laptops of 2019, and at CES 2020, the company announced the ZenBook Duo (no Pro this time), its smaller cousin that comes in a more manageable 14-inch size. Like the 15.6-inch ZenBook Pro Duo, the new ZenBook Duo also features a secondary “ScreenPad Plus” display (this time, a 12.6-inch panel, compared to the 14-inch panel on its larger cousin), enabling the dual-screen experiences that made the original a compelling product. Related Asus ZenBook Pro Duo review: two-screen dream Specs are also diminished on the non-Pro ZenBook Duo in nearly every respect. The 14-inch panel is FHD instead of 4K, and no longer OLED. The processors are Intel’s 10th Gen Comet Lake chipsets, but they come from the less powerful U-series lineup instead of the H-series chips on the bigger model. The optional GPU is a GeForce MX250, instead of an RTX 2060 (assuming you opt for a dedicated GPU at all, over Intel’s integrated graphics). RAM tops out at 16GB instead of 32GB. Still, the smaller size and weight (3.3 pounds instead of 6.4 pounds) should make the ZenBook Duo a far more portable machine than its massive cousin, and the less powerful specs should help it hit a more affordable price point than the $2,499 that the original ZenBook Pro Duo sold for, although no price has been announced yet. Asus says that the ZenBook Duo will be available in Q1 2020. Asus also announced updates to its VivoBook S lineup, which come in 13.3-inch, 14-inch, and 15.6-inch sizes. All three now come with Intel’s latest 10th Gen chips (14nm Comet Lake options on the 14-inch and 15.6-inch models, 10nm Ice Lake chips on the 13.3-inch one). They can also be configured with up to 16GB of RAM, and feature optional discrete Nvidia GPUs instead of Intel’s integrated graphics, should you need the extra power. The updated VivoBook S models will arrive sometime in Q1 or Q2 2020, although specifics as to when — as well as starting prices — have yet to be announced. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns The 14-inch dual-screen Asus ZenBook Duo is smaller, lighter, and less powerful Fujitsu updates iconic Happy Hacking Keyboard with USB-C and Bluetooth View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook