https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/7/21054391/art-club
The best part of the OnePlus Concept One isn’t the disappearing camera - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Featured Videos Tech The best part of the OnePlus Concept One isn’t the disappearing camera New, 44 comments It’s the ND filter By Dieter Bohn@backlon Jan 7, 2020, 11:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: The best part of the OnePlus Concept One isn’t the disappearing camera Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email At a press event at CES, we got a chance to play around with a concept phone from OnePlus, appropriately called the OnePlus Concept One. It is a true concept device in that it may never be released, but it exists to demonstrate a single feature. That feature was announced earlier this week: the glass can become opaque to hide the cameras on the back of the phone. It works. As you can see in the video above and the image slider below, the camera lenses are completely occluded under a bare strip of dark glass until you turn the camera on. Three holes quickly appear so that you can take photos. When the camera app closes, the glass goes dark again. Bada bing bada boom. But... why? OnePlus held an entire press event to show off a single feature that’s almost purely cosmetic and isn’t ready to ship. In fact, the only other unique feature on this concept phone was the fact that it had “Papaya Orange” stitched leather on the back, inspired by McLaren, and PVD-treated aluminum to make it look shiny and gold. OnePlus does have its reasons, though, and at least one of them does begin to make some sense. It argues that this technology could make it a little more acceptable to sell a phone with four or five or more cameras on the back. But at the end of the day, the point of this concept phone is the same as many concept cars: to look cool and convince you that the company that made it can do cool things. Mission accomplished, I guess, because the feature is cool and the phone does indeed look cool. Luckily, the glass does something beyond looking cool: instead of just being opaque or transparent, it can also become semi-transparent. That effectively turns it into a neutral density filter, allowing you to shoot photos and videos in very bright sunlight without everything getting blown out. To turn it on, you need to enter into the OnePlus camera’s Pro mode. Once you’re in Pro mode, you’ll find a toggle button labeled ND8. Tap it and you should get the equivalent of a three f-stop reduction — assuming OnePlus’ notation is accurate to the effect. This is particularly useful for shooting video in bright conditions, but it’s a neat trick to capture some photo effects as well. Unfortunately, I was only able to test it out by pointing the camera at your typical fluorescent conference room lights instead of outdoors. It did make the shot darker, but I can’t vouch for how much. I do wish that the ND filter was variable, though, instead of being a single toggle to ND8. That’s not really a problem, though, because this concept phone is unlikely to see retail release and OnePlus says it still has some technical details to keep working through before it can apply this technology to a shipping phone. As for how the technology actually works, it’s a pretty standard electrochromic glass setup. There are two layers of glass with two more conductive layers between them and the actual electrochromic layer in the middle. You run a charge through the conductive layers and it changes the opacity. OnePlus says it was inspired by the electrochromic roof on the McLaren 720S — the company has been partnering with McLaren to brand top-flight OnePlus phones for a while. OnePlus says the real innovation in this glass is both how thin and how quick it is. It’s 0.35mm thick and it can switch from opaque to transparent in 0.7 seconds. Both are apparently unmatched by other EC glass. Because it’s so thin, OnePlus also used specialized non-polar glass particles between the layers to add structural support, taking care to only place them around the camera holes so they wouldn’t distort the image. As impressive as all that might be, it’s not perfectly executed. At certain angles, you can absolutely see where the camera holes are. Head on, it looks evenly black, but if you go hunting you can find them, as below. Even though OnePlus wouldn’t commit to a timeline for putting this feature in a phone, I have to assume it won’t be too long. Holding this high profile of an event at CES just to show something that ends up being vaporware would be an awfully bad look for the company. For a phone that looks this good, that would be a shame. Grid View The Verge on YouTube Exclusive first looks at new tech, reviews, and shows like Processor with Dieter Bohn. Subscribe! In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns The best part of the OnePlus Concept One isn’t the disappearing camera This AI kitty litter box will analyze your cat’s poops for some reason View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook