https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21050309/art-club
Asus 360Hz gaming monitor: designed for e-sports and competitive gaming - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Tech Nvidia and Asus announce a 360Hz gaming monitor designed for e-sports New, 10 comments An ‘advanced’ G-Sync processor is inside By Tom Warren@tomwarren Jan 5, 2020, 9:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Nvidia and Asus announce a 360Hz gaming monitor designed for e-sports Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email When Asus first showed off a 360Hz gaming monitor last year, it was an April Fools’ prank. At CES 2020, Asus is bringing the real thing: a 24.5-inch 1080p gaming monitor that runs at 360Hz with Nvidia’s G-Sync technology. Asus is claiming this is the world’s first 360Hz gaming monitor with G-Sync, and it’s designed with e-sports and competitive gaming in mind. 144Hz and 240Hz are typical refresh rates found in most gaming-focused monitors, but you might be wondering why you’d even need a 360Hz monitor. Naturally, you’ll need a powerful GPU to reach the types of frame rates where you’ll even notice a difference, and you’ll need to play competitive games like Overwatch or CS:GO to really take advantage of a 360Hz display. The Asus ROG Swift 360Hz panel runs at 1080p resolution, which will certainly help with higher frame rates, and Nvidia is including an “advanced G-Sync processor” inside. Asus and Nvidia have worked side by side on the monitor to unlock higher frame rates. Nvidia claims these higher frame rates improve target tracking with smoother animations in games, reduce tearing and ghosting, and, obviously, let players see enemies earlier. Any reduction in latency, even just milliseconds, will make a big difference in competitive gaming. This 360Hz monitor displays game frames once every 2.8ms, which can be up to six times faster than a regular monitor or TV. Nvidia is demonstrating this display at CES this week, and we’ll need to test it fully to spot the differences over 144Hz or 240Hz. Nvidia is claiming flick shot improvements of up to 37 percent over a regular 60Hz monitor, so the improvements should be noticeable. The Asus ROG Swift 360Hz won’t be available until “later this year,” and Asus has not provided an exact release date or pricing yet. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Nvidia and Asus announce a 360Hz gaming monitor designed for e-sports After being banned in 2019, Lora DiCarlo returns to CES with two new sex toys and awards View all 176 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook