https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/4/21123117/samsung-galaxy-buds-plus-earbuds-specs-leaked
Samsung’s Galaxy Buds Plus leak: longer battery life and better sound - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Samsung Headphones Samsung’s upcoming Galaxy Buds Plus will make big improvements to battery life and sound quality New, 17 comments A leaked specs comparison reveals all of the details By Chris Welch@chriswelch Feb 4, 2020, 5:15pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Samsung’s upcoming Galaxy Buds Plus will make big improvements to battery life and sound quality Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge Samsung’s Galaxy Buds Plus will improve upon the company’s original true wireless earbuds on multiple fronts, according to a specs page tweeted by Evan Blass. Battery life is perhaps the most significant one, with the Buds Plus lasting for 11 hours on a single charge (up from six hours on the previous Galaxy Buds). Combined with the juice in the charging case, Samsung says the new set can last up to 22 hours versus the 13-hour max runtime of the older pair. The leaked specs comparison also reveals that the Galaxy Buds will have dedicated woofer and tweeter drivers in each earbud, whereas the previous model just had one speaker in each. Samsung has also added a second outer voice mic for a total of three. Voice call quality is one of the weaknesses of the Galaxy Buds, so it seems the company has done some reengineering in hopes of fixing that. Image: Evan Blass / @evleaks Open Spotify directly from the earbuds Visually, the two sets of earbuds look identical and share the same dimensions, though the Buds Plus weigh slightly more. In addition to volume and track controls, the exterior touchpad can apparently be used to immediately open Spotify on your phone. That’s the latest example of the ongoing partnership between Samsung and the streaming music service. Finally, the Galaxy Buds Plus will be able to simultaneously pair with multiple devices at once, getting rid of the single-device limit from the first Galaxy Buds. Samsung’s comparison sheet lists the price for the Galaxy Buds Plus, which we’re expecting to see debut alongside the Galaxy S20 lineup, as $149. They’ll be available in black, white, red, and blue. In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 Samsung’s upcoming Galaxy Buds Plus will make big improvements to battery life and sound quality Samsung leaks images of its new Galaxy S20 View all 54 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook