https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/1/21152773/art-club
Lionkiller turns the legend of Mulan into an interactive story during the Opium Wars - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Games Review Entertainment Lionkiller turns the legend of Mulan into an interactive story during the Opium Wars I’ll make a Mulan out of you By Michael Moore@Kiey Mar 1, 2020, 11:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Lionkiller turns the legend of Mulan into an interactive story during the Opium Wars Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email It can be difficult to find time to finish a video game, especially if you only have a few hours a week to play. In our biweekly column Short Play we suggest video games that can be started and finished in a weekend. Tools like Twine have made it easier than ever to make interactive text-based games. But while they can be simple to make, that doesn’t make it any easier to tell an engaging story. As a writer, you have nowhere to hide: there aren’t graphical avatars for the player to control or music and voice acting to help tell the story. It’s just words and hyperlinks. Despite that, games like Lionkiller show just how engaging and powerful interactive fiction can be — even if they only have words to work with. Lionkiller is a reinterpretation of the legend of famous 4th or 5th century female Chinese warrior Hua Mulan. It deviates from the original source material and the well-known Disney adaptation by setting the story during the first part of the mid-19th century Opium Wars between the Chinese and British. It’s a war that started due to British merchants illegally smuggling and selling highly addictive opium to try to balance their trade deficit for luxury goods from China. The Chinese government was not particularly keen on this, to say the least. Lionkiller starts with Mulan working at a flower shop, and the choices you make influence how her story plays out in both big and small ways, much like they do in games like Life is Strange or Telltale’s The Walking Dead. Does Mulan join the army to keep their father from getting drafted? Or her brother who has fled? Or maybe in place of her love interest so that she can live her dream? It’s not these choices that keep you engaged and interacting with the story. Instead, it is a combination of the writing — which is brief but impactful — and the way it uses text links almost like cuts in a film or TV show. Effectively, all Twine games are a number of webpages full of text, in which there are colored text links you click to go from one page to another, or sometimes they add, remove, or change the text on the current page. In Lionkiller each of these pages feels less like reading a page of a book and more like a shot or moment in a larger movie scene, with the links that go between pages feeling like cuts between shots or scenes. The links that add or change the text work much like if you were a film editor, giving you moments where it adds or changes a shot to more explicitly express the subtext of a scene. And with these links being optional, your choice to interact with them feels as though you are helping to create the scene. What’s great about these interactions is the way they become as automatic as turning a page in a book. It just sort of happens and becomes part of the flow of reading. You’re never overly conscious of how much you are interacting, but you also don’t settle in as a passive reader where the appearance of an interaction feels surprising. Aside from being a great game, Lionkiller is also a great reminder of how rarely interactive fiction games are recognized beyond their niche. This is despite the fact that they’re often incredibly accessible to play, only requiring a web browser. Given the amount of reading the average person does, it’s a style of game that should appeal to more people — and it deserves more attention than it currently gets. Lionkiller was created by Sisi Jiang. You can get it on Itch.io (Windows, macOS, Linux, iOS, and Android) for $10. It takes about two hours to finish. In This Stream Short Play: all the video games you can start and finish in a weekend The Bookshelf Limbo gamifies the decision paralysis of gift-giving Lionkiller turns the legend of Mulan into an interactive story during the Opium Wars You don’t play Wide Ocean Big Jacket; you participate View all 60 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook