https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/9/21171674/coronavirus-epidemic-canceling-events-outbreak-reduction
Coronavirus pandemic: quarantines and canceling events can slow down the virus’s spread - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Podcasts The Vergecast Science Canceling events early can help keep an outbreak from getting worse ‘Flattening the curve’ reduces strain on the health care system By Nicole Wetsman Updated Mar 11, 2020, 1:30pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Canceling events early can help keep an outbreak from getting worse Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Cleaning staff disinfects a subway station in New York City. Photo by Yana Paskova/Getty Images Part of A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic The novel coronavirus has now reached the level of a global pandemic. That does not, however, mean the spread of the virus is impossible to stop. “The danger is that if you do not try and stop this, it can overwhelm your health system,” Michael Ryan, executive director of WHO’s Health Emergencies Programme, said in a press conference on March 11th. “There have to be very strong efforts made to suppress infection, to push the infection back.” Experts say the best defense we have is social distancing — asking people to avoid gathering in groups and keep at a distance from others. Even before the pandemic declaration, groups were canceling large gatherings to try to slow the spread of the virus. SXSW, the annual event held each year in Austin, Texas, was canceled one week before it was set to start due to concerns about the novel coronavirus. The Swiss government banned gatherings of 1,000 people or more, shutting down the 2020 Geneva Motor Show. Emerald City Comic Con, which was set to take place from March 12th–16th in Seattle, was postponed. In New York City, Mayor Bill de Blasio asked people to work from home if they’re able and to avoid crowded subway cars during rush hours. Canceling events and encouraging people to stay out of crowded areas may seem like overkill in places that haven’t had a high number of identified cases of the virus, but evidence from past outbreaks shows that implementing policies that keep people at a distance can prevent one from exploding. During the 1918 influenza pandemic, for example, fewer people died in cities that closed churches and schools early on. Cities like St. Louis, which closed movie theaters and canceled sporting events when only a few people had the flu, were able to reduce the spread of disease by around half. Philadelphia, which decided to hold a parade at the start of the outbreak, saw the number of cases skyrocket. Image: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA There still may be high numbers of cases — and even deaths — in places that put early social distancing policies in place during an epidemic. Crucially, though, those cases are spread out over a longer period of time. Epidemiologists refer to it as flattening the curve. That prevents a sudden surge in the number of sick people, which can quickly overwhelm hospitals and the health care system. A flattened curve means there aren’t as many people sick at once, so they can be cared for and discharged. The outbreak may go on for longer, but the impacts wouldn’t be as severe. Image: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Even though earlier may be better, there’s no consensus on the best time to put social distancing policies in place. They can be socially and economically taxing, and it’s emotionally difficult for people to see everyday life disrupted around them. China locked down cities and kept people in their homes for weeks to try to beat back the outbreak, which came at a huge psychological cost — even though it probably contributed to the decline in the number of new cases they’re seeing each day. Recommendations in place in the US range from canceling events to asking the elderly, who are at risk of having severe illness from the new virus, to avoid traveling unless it’s necessary. Some school districts shut down, and some universities moved their classes online. Many companies are asking their employees to work from home. But in the US, applying public health policies can be especially challenging. Many people don’t have paid sick leave and can’t afford to stay home or off of crowded public transportation if they’re feeling ill. Shutting down schools might seem like an easy way to stop the spread of disease, but the high cost of child care might mean doing so would cause more harm than good. If parents can’t stay home from work, they might leave kids at community centers, like they did during the H1N1 epidemic in Seattle. New York City, for example, is reluctant to close all schools in response to the COVID-19 outbreak because they’re the only places many kids get hot meals each day. Applying social distancing measures to the extent the system allows, though, is the best defense against the spread of the novel coronavirus, particularly without vaccines or treatments available. The goal isn’t to eliminate the disease entirely, but to keep cases from appearing all at once. During a pandemic, that can mean the difference between a severe outbreak and one that’s more manageable. A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic Virus Basics 5 Everything you need to know about the coronavirus The coronavirus could stick around, but the way we fight it will change if it does If you’re feeling nervous about the coronavirus, you’re not alone Here’s who’s most at risk from the novel coronavirus Why we’re seeing some severe COVID-19 cases among younger people Virus Response 11 Coronavirus testing shouldn’t be this complicated How cities are fighting coronavirus on public transportation How emergency declarations are helping governments respond to COVID-19 The new coronavirus is not an excuse to be racist WHO declares the outbreak of the new coronavirus is a pandemic Trump signs $8.3 billion emergency coronavirus aid package Coronavirus-contaminated cruise ships mirror the global crisis All of Italy is being placed on lockdown due to coronavirus Prisons and jails are vulnerable to COVID-19 outbreaks Personal privacy matters during a pandemic — but less than it might at other times Scientists are racing to find the best drugs to treat COVID-19 How Tos 4 Everything you wanted to know about self-quarantine, from a person who’s living it A germophobe’s guide to a clean phone How to make your own hand sanitizer How to debunk COVID-19 conspiracy theories Virus Science 10 It’s going to take a lot longer to make a COVID-19 vaccine than a treatment The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is exploring at-home COVID-19 tests in Seattle How the coronavirus hitches a ride around your life The US has tested shockingly few people for the new coronavirus Continued travel bans aren’t going to stop spread of the new coronavirus Health care workers are at high risk of catching COVID-19 Stanford group wants to use your computer to help researchers study the coronavirus An experimental treatment for the new coronavirus is being tested in the US Coronavirus data from outside the outbreak epicenter is just as valuable as from the inside To fight the coronavirus, labs are printing its genome What the tech sector is doing 10 Electronics companies are getting gridlocked by coronavirus lockdowns Tech giants will keep paying hourly staff even if they are asked to stay home due to coronavirus Amazon, Google, Facebook, and Microsoft are asking Seattle-based staff to work from home because of coronavirus Postmates says it will start ‘non-contact’ meal deliveries during the coronavirus outbreak Amazon Flex drivers won’t be paid if they have to stay home due to coronavirus, but Uber’s and Lyft’s will Facebook temporarily bans ads for medical face masks to prevent coronavirus exploitation Google and Microsoft are giving away enterprise conferencing tools due to coronavirus Etsy has started cracking down on coronavirus merchandise Amazon has barred a million products for making false coronavirus claims Facebook confirms ban on misleading coronavirus ads Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook