https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/22/21077334/art-club
This is Microsoft’s vision for dual-screen apps on Windows 10X and Android - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Microsoft Google Tech This is Microsoft’s vision for dual-screen apps on Windows 10X and Android New, 45 comments Developers can start getting ready for Surface Neo and Surface Duo By Tom Warren@tomwarren Jan 22, 2020, 1:50pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: This is Microsoft’s vision for dual-screen apps on Windows 10X and Android Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge Microsoft is starting to share more details on exactly how it imagines apps will run on dual-screen devices like the Surface Duo and Surface Neo. The software giant unveiled both devices back in October, with the smaller Surface Duo running Android and the larger Surface Neo powered by Windows 10X. Now, Microsoft is getting developers ready to test their apps to see how both devices will span them across both displays. By default, an app will occupy a single screen according to Microsoft. Surface Duo or Surface Neo users can then span the app across both displays when they’re in double-portrait or double-landscape layout. Microsoft envisions that app developers will experiment with different ways to utilize both screens. Some of these include simply using both screens as an extended canvas, having two pages of a document shown at once, using the second display as a companion or dual view of something, or having a master part of the app on one display and details on the second. Microsoft’s dual-screen app vision. Image: Microsoft These are “initial app pattern ideas,” according to Microsoft, and the company could well extend them based on developer feedback in the coming months. Microsoft is also asking developers to consider a variety of inputs and to embrace the way orientations these new dual-screen devices will be used in. On the input side of things, Microsoft wants developers to optimize apps that are built for things like note taking to work best in landscape mode. “Our studies show that users are more comfortable typing or writing on a flat surface,” says a lengthy Microsoft dual-screen document. These variety of inputs include stylus, pen, and touch, just like many Windows 10 devices today. While Windows 10 already natively supports touch, Microsoft wants dual-screen app developers to embrace drag and drop. Because apps open fullscreen on one display by default, you can also window them to have two running side-by-side on each display. “A dual-screen device that runs apps side-by-side especially lends itself to drag-and-drop interactions for a great app experience,” explains Microsoft. If developers enable multiple instances for their apps, you’ll also be able to open multiple instances of the same app and run them side-by-side. Microsoft appears to be readying developers largely for dual-screen devices, and not single foldable displays. These multiple displays do introduce an obvious seam in the middle, and Microsoft is providing some guidance on embracing that gap or avoiding it. Apps like Google Maps can embrace the seam easily because map data can be moved freely, but some apps will have dialog boxes that were designed to be centered, or images that are displayed in the center. Microsoft is recommending that app-launched dialogs should move to one screen instead of trying to stretching across both. That’s the same for context menus or drop down menus, that should ideally treat the gap between the displays as a boundary and not try to display menus there. Developers will also need to consider snapping to the seam, to avoid content in a grid or tabular layout not being displayed correctly. Responsive layouts will help here, by rearrange content when the screen orientation or size changes. Developers can also choose how to handle images spanning across the two displays. They can either mask, where an image is rendered behind the seam, or split which cuts the image apart. The mask technique leaves it up to a users’ brain to “naturally connect the ‘unseen’ parts,” according to Microsoft, and it’s a recommended technique for videos and photos. Microsoft is also releasing an Android emulator for the Surface Duo today to allow devs to test mobile apps. A Windows 10X emulator for the Surface Neo will arrive next month at around the same time that Microsoft plans to detail more of its dual-screen plans during a developer webcast. Microsoft’s Android emulator will naturally support Android apps, and the Windows 10X version will include support for native Windows APIs to let developers detect hinge positions and optimize their win32 or Universal Windows Platform (UWP) apps for these new devices. Microsoft is also proposing new web standards for dual-screen layouts, and is “actively incubating new capabilities that enable web content to provide a great experience on dual-screen devices.” Windows 10X Emulator. Image: Microsoft Other OEMs like Dell, HP, Lenovo, and Asus are also working on Windows 10X dual-screen and foldable devices. We’ve already seen one from Lenovo in the form of the ThinkPad X1 Fold, but we’re hoping to see more in the coming months. Microsoft is also planning to reveal more details about its dual-screen plans at the company’s Build developer conference in May. Update, January 23rd 4:20AM ET: Article updated with more information from Microsoft’s dual-screen documentation. Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook