https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/29/21113582/microsoft-q2-2020-earnings-cloud-services-surface-gaming-windows
Microsoft Q2 2020 earnings: Office, Surface, and cloud lead results - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Microsoft Tech Microsoft’s Office, Surface, and cloud businesses lead Q2 results New, 15 comments Windows also did well, but gaming is down By Tom Warren@tomwarren Jan 29, 2020, 4:19pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Microsoft’s Office, Surface, and cloud businesses lead Q2 results Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Microsoft posted the second quarter of its 2020 financial results today, reporting revenue of $36.9 billion and net income of $11.6 billion. Surface and Office are both up, and revenue from Windows licenses has also increased just as Windows 7 support comes to an end. Gaming revenue is down a massive 21 percent, and Microsoft is blaming some of that on a strong quarter of a third-party game last year. Microsoft’s Surface revenue jumped massively during the same quarter a year ago, on the back of a Surface Pro 6, Surface Laptop 2, Surface Studio 2, and Surface Headphones launch. It pushed Surface closer to a $2 billion business. This year, Surface revenue has also increased by 6 percent to $1.9 billion. Surface Pro X Photo by Vjeran Pavic / The Verge Microsoft launched its new Surface Pro X device with an ARM-based Qualcomm SQ1 processor inside, and also refreshed its typical Surface lineup. The Surface Pro 7 got the latest Intel processors and USB-C, while the Surface Laptop 3 got a new 15-inch model (with AMD processors), USB-C, and options for metal or fabric finishes. Microsoft is planning to launch its new Surface Earbuds in the spring, and the company will likely unveil new Surface Book and Surface Go models this year, alongside its plans to launch the new dual-screen Surface Neo and Surface Duo devices. In an earnings call with investors, Microsoft CFO Amy Hood revealed Microsoft expects Surface “revenue growth in the low single digits as we work through the execution challenges in the consumer segment.” Xbox Series X Over on the gaming side, Microsoft also has a big year ahead for its Xbox business. While we wait for the new Xbox Series X console to launch later this year, overall gaming revenue has decreased 21 percent for the recent quarter. Microsoft notes that Xbox content and services revenue also decreased by 11 percent, primarily due to a “third-party title” (likely Fortnite or Red Dead Redemption 2) performing better last year. Subscription growth has partially offset this decrease, but clearly the third-party game boosted Xbox content revenue last year. Microsoft’s CFO Amy Hood also revealed gaming revenue will decline next quarter in the “low double digit range” due to console sales and “lower transaction volume on a third-party title.” While revenue has decreased in gaming, it’s no surprise as Microsoft prepares to launch a new Xbox console and is investing in efforts like Xbox Game Pass for its gaming business over the long term. Some of these bets simply won’t pay off immediately in quarterly revenue. Microsoft is also planning to launch its xCloud game streaming service this year, and it looks like it will likely be bundled into some type of subscription with Xbox Game Pass. Public trials are underway, and Microsoft has steadily been adding plenty of new titles for beta testers to try out. Windows 10 support and PS4 controller support are both coming this year, too. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella revealed on an earnings call today that “hundreds of thousands of people [are] participating in initial trials.” Nadella also revealed that “Xbox Game Pass subscribers more than doubled this quarter,” but Microsoft has still not revealed an exact number for its subscription service. Microsoft also hasn’t revealed Xbox Live active users this quarter, but Nadella says “we set a new record for Xbox Live monthly active users again this quarter, led by the strength of console.” This time last year Microsoft was at 64 million active Xbox Live users per month. Windows 10 It was also an interesting quarter for Windows. Microsoft ended support for Windows 7 earlier this month, and it has helped push the PC market to its first year of growth since 2011 as businesses and consumers upgrade. Both Windows OEM Pro and non-Pro was up in the recent quarter, with Pro revenue jumping by a massive 26 percent that’s to what Microsoft calls “healthy Windows 10 demand” for Windows 7 upgrades. Microsoft 365 agreements with businesses also pushed commercial products and cloud revenue up by 25 percent this recent quarter. The real story of Microsoft’s earnings, as always, is in the company’s Office and cloud businesses. Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 16 percent in the recent quarter, and even Office consumer revenue is up 19 percent with Office 365 consumer subscriptions growing to 37.2 million. Overall revenue in what Microsoft calls “Intelligent Cloud” was $11.9 billion, an increase of 27 percent year-over-year. Azure itself grew 62 percent, and server products and cloud services revenue is up 30 percent. Microsoft’s three main business areas are as follows: Office, LinkedIn, Dynamics (Productivity and Business Processes) - $11.8 billion, an increase of 17 percent Azure, server products, enterprise services (Intelligent Cloud) - $11.9 billion, an increase of 27 percent Windows, Surface, Xbox and gaming, Bing ads (More Personal Computing) - $13.2 billion, an increase of 2 percent It’s clear that most of Microsoft’s growth is coming from Office, Azure, and commercial cloud services. While “More Personal Computing” has the most overall revenue, its growth is far lower due to its established businesses like Windows and Xbox. Once again, Microsoft’s revenue is spread across a variety of big businesses, and the company isn’t fully reliant on any individual business for a majority of its revenue. Update, January 29th 6PM ET: Article updated with comments from Microsoft’s investor call. Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook