https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/29/21113422/coronavirus-outbreak-american-airlines-china-flights-cancelled-dates
American Airlines cancels some flights to mainland China after coronavirus outbreak - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Tech Transportation American Airlines cancels some flights to mainland China after coronavirus outbreak Flights between Los Angeles and China are canceled from February 9th to March 27th By Sean O'Kane@sokane1 Jan 29, 2020, 11:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: American Airlines cancels some flights to mainland China after coronavirus outbreak Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Robert Alexander/Getty Images American Airlines will suspend flights between Los Angeles and mainland China from February 9th to March 27th due to a “significant decline in demand” brought on by the coronavirus outbreak, the company announced Wednesday. The airline will continue to operate flights to Beijing and Shanghai from Dallas-Fort Worth and back, as well as between Los Angeles and Hong Kong. The company says it will contact customers with tickets on these affected flights directly, either by email or via telephone. Related Everything you need to know about the coronavirus from China American is the second US airline to suspend flights to and from China in the wake of the coronavirus, which has killed at least 132 in the country and spread to more than 6,000 people worldwide. United Airlines announced Tuesday it plans to drop some flights in the first week of February for the same reason, decreased demand. Delta Air Lines is currently waiving fees for customers who want to change their travel plans, but has not suspended any flights at the time this article was published. (A spokesperson said there was “nothing new to report” when asked if the company was considering cancellations.) Some international airlines have also reduced or outright stopped service, too. Cathay Pacific and Air Canada have scaled back flights to and from China, while both British Airways and Lufthansa announced on Wednesday that they’re suspending all direct flights to mainland China. Even some cruise ship trips to China have been canceled. Late Tuesday, CNBC reported that the White House told US airlines the Trump administration is considering suspending all flights to and from China — a move that has the support of at least one senator, Tom Cotton, who had called for a travel ban earlier in the day. A number of major tech companies that do business in China have already put restrictions on employee travel to and from the region, like Apple, Facebook, and LG. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline American Airlines cancels some flights to mainland China after coronavirus outbreak Misinformation about the coronavirus is threatening to overwhelm tech platforms View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook