https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/2/21042580/art-club
GE’s new smart switches and dimmers can be installed in almost any home - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Smart Home Tech CES 2020 News GE’s new smart switches and dimmers can be installed in almost any home New, 136 comments No neutral wire and no hub required By Dan Seifert@dcseifert Jan 2, 2020, 9:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: GE’s new smart switches and dimmers can be installed in almost any home Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email C by GE Hubless Smart Dimmer with motion detection Image: GE Lighting GE Lighting is introducing new smart lighting switches and dimmers to its C by GE line of connected products that do not require the use of a neutral wire. This allows the C by GE Hubless Three-Wire Smart Switch and Hubless Dimmer models to be installed in many more homes than most smart switches, including homes built before 1980. In addition, the new switches do not require a hub to connect to the internet or be used with the Google Assistant or Amazon Alexa. The smart switches will arrive in the first quarter for $39.99 and up, while the dimmers are due in the second quarter for $49.99 and up. The vast majority of smart lighting switches and dimmers on the market require an extra wire in the junction box called a neutral wire, which is lacking on many older homes. This wire is used to control and regulate voltage and is necessary for many dimmers to work properly. Prior to GE’s new products, the only other smart switch and dimmers that didn’t need a neutral wire were from Lutron’s Caséta line of products. Unlike the Caséta products, though, GE’s new switches and dimmers do not require a hub and can connect directly to a Wi-Fi network. They can work directly with Amazon’s Alexa or the Google Assistant voice assistants. (Apple HomeKit support does require the use of an additional hub.) They also have a built-in Bluetooth mesh radio for connecting to other C by GE devices. GE says it designed the switches to be smaller to better fit in the junction boxes of older homes and they will automatically determine which is the load wire and which is the line wire to make installation simpler for homeowners. Grid View One of the problems that is mitigated by a neutral wire is ghosting or flashing from certain LED bulbs. To address this problem, GE is including an adapter in the box that screws into a lightbulb socket and balances the voltage across the circuit. This adapter doesn’t require additional wiring on the part of the homeowner. The new three-wire (line, load, and ground) switches will be available in three different designs — button, paddle, and toggle — to match whatever existing switches are already in the home. The dimmer will be available with or without a built-in motion detector. All of the new switches will be managed and controlled by the same C by GE app that the company’s existing four-wire (the ones that do have neutral wire support) switches and dimmers use. In addition to the new smart switches and dimmers, GE is also announcing a line of battery-powered “wire-free” switches that can be mounted anywhere in the home and do not require any sort of wiring. These switches communicate with other C by GE lightbulbs and switches over Bluetooth and will last over two years on a coin cell battery. A wire-free motion detector and remote will also be available in the C by GE line. The wire-free devices start at $22.99 and will be available around the same time as the three-wire switches. Grid View Overall, GE’s new smart lighting products should appeal to homeowners who have been shut out of smart switches because their homes have older wiring. The new wire-free products should also appeal to renters who aren’t able to easily install things that require wiring. Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns GE’s new smart switches and dimmers can be installed in almost any home LG’s latest rollable TV descends from the ceiling like a projector screen View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook