https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21054005/art-club
LG’s roll-up TV is shipping this year and could cost $60,000 - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News LG LG’s roll-up TV is shipping this year and could cost $60,000 New, 5 comments By Adi Robertson@thedextriarchy Jan 6, 2020, 6:07pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: LG’s roll-up TV is shipping this year and could cost $60,000 Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email LG’s roll-up TV — the one that impressed us at CES last year — is shipping this year and could cost around $60,000. According to CNET, the 65-inch 4K OLED television is supposed to ship in the second or third quarter of 2020. LG reportedly hasn’t finalized a US price, and the company didn’t respond to a request for comment. But J.S. Lee, LG’s home entertainment marketing head, quoted the number above to CNET. The TV was originally supposed to ship in 2019. Why would someone pay $60,000 when LG sells a normal 65-inch 4K OLED for around $2,500? Because it buys you a screen that disappears on command. The display slides slowly into a broad base when you’re not using it, supposedly without sacrificing picture quality for that unique rollable panel. CNET says it’s tested for a total of 50,000 rolls, which translates to around 68 years of sliding it up and down once a day, or around three years of rolling it up and down every hour for 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. If you’d rather save your money for basically anything else, just check out the rolling action here: GIF by Chris Welch / The Verge Conversely, if the roll-up TV seems too pedestrian, you can hold out for a TV that descends from the ceiling — which LG just announced at this year’s CES. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns LG’s roll-up TV is shipping this year and could cost $60,000 AMD’s 7nm Ryzen 4000 CPUs are here to take on Intel’s 10nm Ice Lake laptop chips View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook