https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/7/21128218/art-club
What happens if the new coronavirus sticks around?  - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Health The coronavirus could stick around, but the way we fight it will change if it does Will the trajectory of this virus be more like SARS or HIV? By Nicole Wetsman Feb 7, 2020, 2:44pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: The coronavirus could stick around, but the way we fight it will change if it does Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by STR / AFP via Getty Images Part of A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic Countries around the world are actively searching for cases of the new coronavirus in an effort to stop its spread around the world. But if they can’t contain the virus, public health officials may need to start fighting a different battle. Right now, countries are relying on measures like quarantine and isolation and hoping that they’re enough to beat back the outbreak. If those don’t succeed, the virus might transition from being the cause of a temporary epidemic outbreak to one that causes a new circulating disease. Because we’re still learning about the severity of the virus, the implications of that switch are still hazy. But the progression will be driven by social and political tolerance for the new illness almost as much as it is by biology. “We’re going through the panic phase,” says Graham Medley, director of the Centre for the Mathematical Modelling of Infectious Diseases at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. “Governments don’t know what to do, people don’t know how to react. When we understand the risks, reactions will change.” Right now, China is facing a coronavirus epidemic: a rapid spread of the illness affecting a large group of people in a short amount of time. If the epidemic continues to spread dramatically into other countries, it could become a pandemic (and some experts say it already is). If interventions still don’t stop the spread of the virus, it could shift from being an epidemic or pandemic and become endemic. There’s no single definition of what counts as an endemic disease. For epidemiologists, diseases become endemic when they’re continuously, predictably present in the human population. Politicians, though, might call a disease endemic when it’s well-understood enough that it stops being an unknown threat for the government, Medley says. “For most people, the difference between epidemic disease and endemic disease is that the risks are unknown for an epidemic disease” “For most people, the difference between epidemic disease and endemic disease is that the risks are unknown for an epidemic disease. People fear contracting this novel coronavirus because they don’t know what it’s going to do,” he says. “The definition is really based on how the risks are perceived by individuals and by governments.” Take influenza, which technically causes an epidemic outbreak each year but doesn’t trigger the same kind of public health mobilization we’re seeing with the coronavirus. Every time we have a new epidemic, Medley notes, people compare it to the flu and say that the flu is infecting and killing far more people. “We don’t have this kind of government response to the flu every year. The US doesn’t say, influenza is going to be introduced from Vietnam, so let’s stop all flights from there,” he says. But that’s because public health officials and governments know the risks of the flu. They can predict its patterns and focus on mitigating its impact through education and vaccines. People are much more comfortable with something well-understood and predictable, says Erin Sorrell, assistant research professor in the department of microbiology and immunology at Georgetown University. “People tolerate the risk of exposure to seasonal flu,” she says. “We’re comparing a risk tolerance of something new and novel and not well understood, versus something we see year after year.” Public health experts still don’t know how dangerous the new coronavirus can be, and their response is elevated because of that uncertainty. In addition, because the virus is new, there’s still an opportunity to stop it from spreading through the population. That’s what happened with SARS, which was contained in 2004. Overall, endemic diseases — even though they seem less scary and come with less uncertainty — cause more illness and death than epidemic outbreaks like SARS. But they’re much harder to stop. “The reason we react so aggressively to novel diseases is that we have a chance to contain transmission to the source of an outbreak, and prevent it from getting larger,” Sorrell says. “The reason we react so aggressively to novel diseases is that we have a chance to contain transmission to the source of an outbreak, and prevent it from getting larger” Experts at the World Health Organization (WHO) say that it’s not too late to stop the spread of the new coronavirus. Other infectious disease specialists, though, aren’t so sure. “The more we learn about it, the greater the possibility is that transmission will not be able to be controlled with public health measures,” Allison McGeer, a Toronto-based infectious disease specialist, told Stat News. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is preparing for wider circulation of the virus around the world and in the US, said Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases at the agency, in a press call this week. “We do believe we have a window of opportunity now to prepare the US in case there is a broader spread of this outside of China, and a broader spread in the US,” she said. Sorrell thinks we’ll know within the next few weeks if the new coronavirus can be contained. If it looks like it won’t be, public health efforts around the world will likely slow their active searches for new cases and focus on efforts to treat and mitigate the impacts of the virus — similarly to how they manage the flu. “Those efforts are ongoing, but they’ll be ramped up,” she says. There will be more research into antivirals to treat people who are infected with the virus and continued investment into the development of vaccines. “We’re not starting from scratch.” If the new coronavirus can’t be effectively contained, it might be added to the list of diseases that people in the general population are regularly exposed to. There are already a handful of coronaviruses that circulate, causing mild colds and respiratory symptoms. “Potentially, this could join that group,” Medley says. It also might turn into something that crops up seasonally, like the flu, circulating widely during a few months and they dying back down. The transition from novel, emerging virus to sustained threat has happened before — most recently, with HIV, which offers the closest example of what could happen with the coronavirus, Sorrell says. “It started as an outbreak of an animal virus spilling into humans,” she said. “That had an ability to cause local, regional, and then global outbreaks, leading to a pandemic. That led to investments in research about infection control, and the routes of transmission. We were able to contain the outbreak, but it became a pathogen that was able to sustain itself in the population.” HIV is still classified as a global pandemic. But people adjusted, experts did the work to understand the best ways to minimize the risks of the virus, and there isn’t constant, fearful reporting about each new case of illness. It’s hard to say what the process might look like for the coronavirus, but as we gather more information about the risk of this new pathogen, individuals and governmental perceptions and tolerance would settle to a new baseline. In an ideal situation, public health containment efforts will be enough to halt the spread of the virus. But if they aren’t, ongoing research efforts will most likely drive an acclimation to a new normal. “If this becomes a pathogen sustained in the population, we’ll understand it better because it’s been around,” Sorrell says. “Epidemics become increasingly tolerated.” A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic Virus Basics 5 Everything you need to know about the coronavirus If you’re feeling nervous about the coronavirus, you’re not alone Here’s who’s most at risk from the novel coronavirus Canceling events early can help keep an outbreak from getting worse Why we’re seeing some severe COVID-19 cases among younger people Virus Response 11 Coronavirus testing shouldn’t be this complicated How cities are fighting coronavirus on public transportation How emergency declarations are helping governments respond to COVID-19 The new coronavirus is not an excuse to be racist WHO declares the outbreak of the new coronavirus is a pandemic Trump signs $8.3 billion emergency coronavirus aid package Coronavirus-contaminated cruise ships mirror the global crisis All of Italy is being placed on lockdown due to coronavirus Prisons and jails are vulnerable to COVID-19 outbreaks Personal privacy matters during a pandemic — but less than it might at other times Scientists are racing to find the best drugs to treat COVID-19 How Tos 4 Everything you wanted to know about self-quarantine, from a person who’s living it A germophobe’s guide to a clean phone How to make your own hand sanitizer How to debunk COVID-19 conspiracy theories Virus Science 10 It’s going to take a lot longer to make a COVID-19 vaccine than a treatment The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is exploring at-home COVID-19 tests in Seattle How the coronavirus hitches a ride around your life The US has tested shockingly few people for the new coronavirus Continued travel bans aren’t going to stop spread of the new coronavirus Health care workers are at high risk of catching COVID-19 Stanford group wants to use your computer to help researchers study the coronavirus An experimental treatment for the new coronavirus is being tested in the US Coronavirus data from outside the outbreak epicenter is just as valuable as from the inside To fight the coronavirus, labs are printing its genome What the tech sector is doing 10 Electronics companies are getting gridlocked by coronavirus lockdowns Tech giants will keep paying hourly staff even if they are asked to stay home due to coronavirus Amazon, Google, Facebook, and Microsoft are asking Seattle-based staff to work from home because of coronavirus Postmates says it will start ‘non-contact’ meal deliveries during the coronavirus outbreak Amazon Flex drivers won’t be paid if they have to stay home due to coronavirus, but Uber’s and Lyft’s will Facebook temporarily bans ads for medical face masks to prevent coronavirus exploitation Google and Microsoft are giving away enterprise conferencing tools due to coronavirus Etsy has started cracking down on coronavirus merchandise Amazon has barred a million products for making false coronavirus claims Facebook confirms ban on misleading coronavirus ads Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook