https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21050944/suunto-7-google-wear-os-smartwatch-garmin-battery-offline-maps
Suunto’s first WearOS smartwatch guns for Garmin with outdoor offline maps - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News Wearable Suunto’s first Wear OS smartwatch is taking on Garmin with outdoor offline maps New, 6 comments It’s promising decent battery life for a Wear OS watch, too By Sean Hollister@StarFire2258 Jan 5, 2020, 7:47pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Suunto’s first Wear OS smartwatch is taking on Garmin with outdoor offline maps Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Suunto You’ve probably never heard of Suunto unless you’re a die-hard fitness watch enthusiast, but the company’s latest wrist-worn gadget might have a larger audience than before. It seems to be the first smartwatch the company’s offered, its first Wear OS watch, and a watch that attempts to make Google’s smartwatch operating system more outdoorsy than ever before. It’s called the Suunto 7, and it sounds like it’s a multisport watch that could theoretically be the best of both worlds, with the GPS tracking, offline outdoor maps, heart rate sensors, an altimeter, sleep tracker, and (70-plus) exercise modes you’d expect from a Garmin-style fitness watch. There are also the standard benefits of Google’s Wear OS like summoning Google Assistant, turn-by-turn Google Maps directions, Google Fit, Google’s catalog of apps and watchfaces, and being able to tap to pay with Google Pay on your wrist. The company also suggests that it has a pretty decent-sized battery for a Wear OS watch at 48 hours of battery life, or 12 hours in GPS / GLONASS / Galileo tracking mode. If true, that’d be better than we typically see from Wear OS watches (we haven’t tested any that reliably get over 18 hours of battery life), but it’s a good bit short of what the industry expects from sports watches — much less sports watches with solar panels built in. It uses the same Qualcomm Snapdragon Wear 3100 chip as other recent WearOS devices. This isn’t a small watch, with a 50mm (1.97-in) face and a body that’s over a half-inch thick. But that isn’t unusual for watches that can be worn while swimming laps (it’s water resistant up to 50 meters) or weaving a mountain bike down a tree-topped trail. It takes standard 24mm interchangeable straps, weighs 70 grams, and will be available at the end of January for $499.99. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Suunto’s first Wear OS smartwatch is taking on Garmin with outdoor offline maps Fisker debuts $37,500 electric SUV with a solar roof View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook