https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21050604/art-club
Samsung’s new Sero TV can rotate vertically for your TikTok and Instagram videos - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Featured Videos Tech CES 2020 News Samsung’s new Sero TV can rotate vertically for your TikTok and Instagram videos New, 21 comments Samsung made a TV for the TikTok generation By Chris Welch@chriswelch Jan 5, 2020, 9:30pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Samsung’s new Sero TV can rotate vertically for your TikTok and Instagram videos Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email There’s probably no clearer indication that vertical video is here to stay than Samsung making a TV designed to showcase it. And that’s exactly what has happened. The company has announced that the Sero, a 43-inch 4K TV that can switch from landscape mode (the default) to a portrait orientation, is coming to the US and other global markets. So you’ll be able to watch Instagram stories, TikTok videos, Snapchat content, and the portrait video recordings from your camera roll blown up on a relatively big screen — without heinous pillarboxing black bars on the left and right sides. The Sero originally made its debut in Korea, but is coming stateside and elsewhere in the west this year. Before it was a concept, but Samsung clearly thinks there’s something to this idea thats worth pushing global. Sero in both landscape and portrait modes. Images: Samsung To pull off its clever rotating design, the Sero has an integrated, non-removeable stand that includes a 4.1-channel, 60-watt speaker system inside. That stand provides enough vertical clearance to prevent the TV from hitting the floor whenever it flips into portrait. Galaxy phone owners can tap their device against the Sero’s frame to immediately begin screen mirroring. iPhone users will have to use the included remote control to manually switch the screen to portrait, but full support for AirPlay 2 is included. The Sero is by no means Samsung’s most impressive TV when it comes to picture quality and specs. It’s a 4K screen with QLED color, which is fine for many, but it’s edge lit and lacks full-array local dimming. But does it need to technically be the best when it has this one-of-a-kind party trick? That said, a 43-inch TV isn’t going to be for everybody. If you’ve got a spacious living room (or if you couldn’t care less about vertical video), you’re better off with one of the company’s standard QLED sets, which come in much larger sizes, or something from another brand like TCL, Vizio, LG, or Sony. But for a cramped living room or small apartment, the Sero might make a lot of sense. Pricing and availability aren’t yet being disclosed, however. Lifestyle TV The Sero is Samsung’s latest addition to its line of “lifestyle” TVs that include the Serif, designed to blend in with your living room aesthetic, and The Frame, which showcases artwork when not playing video content. The Serif now comes in three sizes: 43, 49, and 55 inches. It also gains AirPlay 2 support and has an NFC tag for easily pairing with your Android phone. The Frame, meanwhile, also comes in new 75, 50, and 32-inch sizes. Samsung says it features an improved art store with better curation. The store continues to cost $4.99-per-month and offers access to “thousands” of pieces of art. The Frame includes a motion sensor that can shut off the display when you leave the room, and it can also be set to power down when the lights turn off. Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook