https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21051902/art-club
Handheld Super Retro Champ lets you play SNES and Sega Genesis games on the same device - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Tech Handheld Super Retro Champ lets you play SNES and Sega Genesis games on the same device New, 10 comments Just don’t expect a whole lot of battery life By Bijan Stephen Jan 6, 2020, 1:42pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Handheld Super Retro Champ lets you play SNES and Sega Genesis games on the same device Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Thirty years ago, Nintendo and Sega gave the world the Super Nintendo Entertainment System and the Sega Genesis, two consoles that defined a generation of video games and gamers. Since their debuts in 1990 and 1989, respectively, those two devices have never left the popular imagination — as much for the games that they offered as the stories those games told. And now, at CES 2020, My Arcade has brought those consoles together in a beautiful synthesis: the Super Retro Champ, a handheld console that plays carts from the Genesis and the SNES. Behold, the magic of technology! According to Gizmodo, the Super Retro Champ will top out at five hours of battery life — which is fine, and possibly enough for a satisfying on-the-go gaming session, although it isn’t quite the length of a cross-country flight. Luckily, the Super Retro Champ will plug into the wall and can be connected to a TV via HDMI, which means two players can compete using the console’s wireless gamepads. The device will run you $110 when it appears later this year, but that’s about in line with other handheld versions of classic consoles. (Although this one only plays cartridges; there’s no way to add virtual games via ROM files.) And plus: it’s basically two consoles in one not-exactly-svelte package. The future is amazing. And the past is never very far away. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Handheld Super Retro Champ lets you play SNES and Sega Genesis games on the same device Royole made a wraparound touch display for a smart speaker View all 176 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook