https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21050349/art-club
Ring adds lightbulbs, solar power to its smart lighting lineup - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Smart Home Tech CES 2020 News Ring adds lightbulbs, solar power to its smart lighting lineup New, 4 comments Plus a new controller for remotely opening a powered gate By Dan Seifert@dcseifert Jan 6, 2020, 9:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Ring adds lightbulbs, solar power to its smart lighting lineup Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Ring A19 smart bulb. Image: Ring, LLC Ring has announced a significant expansion of its smart lighting product line that was first introduced last year. In addition to the various outdoor light fixtures that are already available, the company now has smart bulbs that can be used in existing fixtures. Ring is also announcing solar-powered versions of its Floodlight, Steplight, and Pathlight products. The new bulbs and solar lights will be available for purchase later this year. Ring is starting small with its smart bulb lineup, offering standard A19 and floodlight-sized PAR38 bulbs for existing fixtures. The company says the bulbs are designed “outdoor first,” and are rated to work in temperatures ranging from -4 degrees Fahrenheit (-20 degrees Celsius) to 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius), though they can also be used indoors without any problem. Both bulbs require a Ring Smart Lighting Bridge for connectivity and management and are single color white, without the ability to display different shades or color temperatures. The A19 bulbs will sell for $14.99 each, while the floodlight bulb will go for $24.99. Ring PAR38 floodlight smart bulb. Image: Ring, LLC For the solar-powered lighting fixtures, Ring says there is no difference in terms of brightness or features compared to the existing battery-operated options. (The hardwired floodlights do have greater brightness, thanks to their consistent source of power.) The Solar Steplight will sell for $29.99, while the Solar Pathlight and Solar Floodlight will cost $39.99 and $89.99, respectively. The Steplight and Pathlight both have their solar panels integrated into a flat surface on the top of the light, while the Floodlight uses a detached panel that can be positioned appropriately for the best access to sunlight. All require the Smart Lighting Bridge for connectivity and management. Ring Solar Floodlight. Image: Ring, LLC Ring Solar Pathlight. Image: Ring, LLC Finally, Ring is also selling a device that lets those with powered gates remotely operate the gate from the Ring app. The $299 Ring Access Controller Pro does not have a camera of its own, but it can be paired with one of the company’s other video doorbells or cameras. In addition, the Access Controller Pro is compatible with Amazon’s Key service for more secure package deliveries. It’s available starting today, but Ring notes that it does require professional installation as it is hardwired into the gate system. Ring Access Controller Pro. Image: Ring, LLC In my review of Ring’s Smart Lighting products last year, I noted that they made it incredibly easy to install smart pathway and access lighting around your home without having to do any digging or wiring. Today’s announcements are extensions of that idea, with the solar-powered units removing the need to even worry about changing batteries. (The battery-powered models will remain available if you don’t have enough sunlight where you want to place the lighting.) Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Ring adds lightbulbs, solar power to its smart lighting lineup Mophie looks to the car to expand its line of batteries View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook