https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21050428/vizio-elevate-soundbar-dolby-atmos-rotating-speaker-ces-2020
Vizio’s new soundbar rotates its speakers for better Dolby Atmos surround sound - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: CES 2020 News Vizio’s new soundbar rotates its speakers for better Dolby Atmos surround sound New, 21 comments The Elevate’s side speakers point upward for Atmos content and forward for everything else By Chris Welch@chriswelch Jan 5, 2020, 12:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Vizio’s new soundbar rotates its speakers for better Dolby Atmos surround sound Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Vizio Alongside a new lineup of TVs, Vizio is also announcing its latest soundbar systems at CES 2020. At the top of the heap is what the company calls the Elevate soundbar, a 10-channel, 5.1.4 sound system that features 18 drivers and a wireless subwoofer. But its neatest feature is that the left and right speakers on the soundbar rotate upward whenever you play Dolby Atmos content. For everything else (like music or standard surround sound), they point forward. The Elevate measures 48 inches across and has an anodized aluminum design. And in a nice touch of integration, the Elevate can be seamlessly docked with the company’s just-announced OLED TV. Compared to Vizio’s entry-level V-Series soundbar, it offers a 130 increase in clarity, loudness, and bass response. There are dedicated, upward-firing drivers in the satellite speakers as well. The P-Series Elevate can decode Dolby Atmos and DTS: X and supports Bluetooth 5.0 and Chromecast audio. For the rest of the soundbar lineup, Vizio focused on a refined look that should make each one less of a dust and fingerprint magnet. Image: Vizio The M-Series 5.1 and 5.1.2 soundbars bring Atmos and DTS:X to “mid-range” price points (Vizio isn’t revealing actual prices yet), and the latter has upward-firing drivers built right into the bar. Stepping down from those, you get the M-Series all-in-one soundbar (pictured below) that uses DTS Virtual:X for an immersive audio experience — even if it’s not proper surround. Vizio’s soundbars all feature new designs this year. Image: Vizio Vizio has also made a number of smaller improvements to the remote, I/O, and has built HDMI 2.1 inputs and eARC into this year’s higher-end soundbars. Here’s the full rundown on those conveniences: With this new generation of sound bars, VIZIO has also enhanced menu navigation, redesigned remotes to add backlit controls in premium models , and introduced multicolor input indicators to make the systems even easier to use. In addition to providing instant feedback that improves the user experience, Vizio’s 2020 V-Series and the M-Series All-in-One sound bars benefit from the convenience of HDMI connections with ARC (audio return channel) for routing audio signals through a TV, and CEC control so the customer can change the sound bar’s inputs or volume with their TV remote. The step-up audio performance in the Dolby Atmos and DTS:X-equipped M-Series and Elevate models is paired with HDMI 2.1 inputs, along with eARC support, which allows the TV to pass through the highest quality, uncompressed, lossless Dolby and DTS audio signals from eARC-supported sources. Vizio has made its smart home voice integrations more convenient as well with automatic signal detection and switching through the analog or Bluetooth inputs. This allows users to connect and talk to their voice assistant of choice (sold separately) and have the assistant respond through the soundbar regardless of the input in use. Pricing and release date information will be shared in the coming weeks. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Vizio’s new soundbar rotates its speakers for better Dolby Atmos surround sound Samsung details its stunning bezel-less 8K TV View all 176 stories Next Up In CES 2020 News Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook