https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/29/21114358/facebook-550-million-settle-lawsuit-facial-recognition-technology-illinois
Facebook to pay $550 million to settle privacy lawsuit over facial recognition tech - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Policy Tech Facebook Facebook to pay $550 million to settle privacy lawsuit over facial recognition tech The case has been ongoing since 2015 By Jay Peters@jaypeters Jan 29, 2020, 7:17pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Facebook to pay $550 million to settle privacy lawsuit over facial recognition tech Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Facebook says it has agreed to pay $550 million to settle a class-action lawsuit regarding its use of facial recognition technology. The news, reported first this evening by The New York Times, was part of a disclosure the company made as part of its fourth quarter earnings report today. The case against Facebook has been going on since 2015. The lawsuit alleged that Facebook’s initial version of the its Tag Suggestions tool, which scans a user’s face in photos and offers suggestions about who that person might be, stored biometric data without user consent, violating the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act. The $550 million settlement is a drop in the bucket for Facebook In 2018, Facebook began more transparently explaining its facial recognition tech to users, pointing people to a settings page where they could disable it. Last year, the company decided to make facial recognition on the platform opt-in only, after years of turning it on by default for all users. A federal judge ruled in favor of making the facial recognition case a class action lawsuit in 2018. Facebook appealed that ruling, but lost the appeal in a 3-0 court decision in August of last year. Facebook’s $550 million settlement will be paid out to eligible Illinois users and to cover the plaintiffs’ legal fees, according to The New York Times. While $550 million may seem like a large settlement, it’s essentially pocket change for Facebook, which today reported revenues of $21 billion for the fourth quarter of 2019. This isn’t the first time the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act has been tested in court. A plaintiff sued Google in Chicago for allegedly uploading her photos to Google Photos and scanning her face without her permission, but the case was dismissed in 2018 after a judge found the plaintiff didn’t suffer “concrete injuries.” Snapchat has also been sued for allegedly violating the law. Related Facebook could pay billions after losing facial recognition privacy appeal Facebook may face billions in fines over its Tag Suggestions feature Google wins dismissal of facial recognition lawsuit over biometric privacy act Next Up In Policy Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook