https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/11/21121001/samsung-galaxy-s20-event-watch-live-stream-z-flip-unpacked-2020
Samsung Unpacked Galaxy S20 event: how to watch the live stream - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: How-to Tech Samsung Watch Samsung Galaxy Unpacked 2020 live We’re hoping to see the new S20 flagship phones, the Galaxy Z Flip, and more By Barbara Krasnoff Feb 11, 2020, 8:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Watch Samsung Galaxy Unpacked 2020 live Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Samsung’s big Unpacked event, where the company is introducing its latest (and, it hopes, greatest) products, is today, February 11th. If you’re a Samsung fan or you’re just interested in the latest tech devices, it should be interesting to watch. News about many of the products that the company plans to announce is already buzzing around the internet, including Samsung’s latest flagship phone series, the Samsung Galaxy S20 and S20 Plus (which should include 5G support); a foldable Galaxy Z Flip; and a pair of true wireless earbuds. But nothing is certain, and during today’s event, Samsung may yet have a few surprises up its sleeve. Of course, there should be all of the usual hoopla that accompanies an announcement: speeches by top executives, product demos, videos, and perhaps a special guest or two — not to mention our always fun-to-read live blogging of the event. Here’s how to follow along: WHERE TO WATCH: Keynote start time: New York: 2PM / San Francisco: 11AM / London: 7PM / Berlin: 8PM / Moscow: 10PM / New Delhi: 12:30AM (February 12th) / Beijing: 3AM (February 12th) / Tokyo: 4AM (February 12th) / Melbourne: 6AM (February 12th) Live blog: Tune in to The Verge’s live blog for the latest on Samsung’s event, expert commentary, and photos. Live stream: Samsung is streaming the event live on its website for desktop viewing. You can also watch the stream on YouTube. Live tweeting: Follow @verge on Twitter for the highlights and new products introduced at Samsung Galaxy Unpacked. Live Instagram updates: Keep an eye on @verge on Instagram for live updates from our team. In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 Watch Samsung Galaxy Unpacked 2020 live Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip phone needs to do way better than past foldables View all 54 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook