https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/5/21124172/youtube-clearview-ai-cease-and-desist
YouTube demands Clearview AI stop scraping its videos for facial recognition database - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Policy Tech YouTube YouTube demands Clearview AI stop scraping its videos for facial recognition database New, 7 comments It wants all existing images deleted, too By Jacob Kastrenakes@jake_k Feb 5, 2020, 11:45am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: YouTube demands Clearview AI stop scraping its videos for facial recognition database Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge YouTube has sent a cease and desist letter to Clearview AI demanding that the controversial facial recognition startup stop scraping YouTube videos to gather faces for its database and delete any images it’s already collected. The demand, first reported by CBS News, says that YouTube forbids anyone from collecting data from its platform that can be used to identify people and that Clearview has admitted to violating this policy. “YouTube’s Terms of Service explicitly forbid collecting data that can be used to identify a person,” a YouTube spokesperson said in a statement sent to The Verge. “Clearview has publicly admitted to doing exactly that, and in response we sent them a cease and desist letter.” Police upload images, and Clearview returns matching faces Clearview AI came into the public spotlight last month after The New York Times revealed what the company was building: an app that can find images of a person’s face across the web. Clearview’s product is marketed to law enforcement, and police have apparently been using it by uploading an image of a suspect’s face, finding where else they’ve appeared online, and then using that information to locate their name. The service was built by collecting images from across the web, taking them from Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, news sites, and more, according to the report. YouTube was supposedly among the services being scraped for images. Clearview may be in a legally precarious position since it likely does not have explicit permission to use many, if not the vast majority, of the photos its service relies on. Still, it’s not clear how enforceable YouTube’s terms of service are in this case. Twitter sent a cease and desist to Clearview last month also demanding that it delete existing photos it had stored. The Verge has reached out to Clearview for comment. In addition to collecting photos, Clearview allegedly uses them to train AI to identify people. There remain open questions around the extent to which photos and videos can be used to train AI without permission, but it’s something that continues to be done. YouTube has even supported AI research this way — albeit for much less starting purposes. Last year, Google revealed how the company had used YouTube videos of the Mannequin Challenge (where people pretended to be frozen in place) to train a tool to predict depth in videos. Next Up In Policy Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook