https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21048522/art-club
Withings incorporates two health monitoring tools into one watch - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News Health Withings incorporates two health monitoring tools into one watch It won’t hit the market until it gets FDA approval By Nicole Wetsman Jan 5, 2020, 8:00pm EST Photography by Dieter Bohn Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Withings incorporates two health monitoring tools into one watch Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email For its newest smart watch, the ScanWatch, Withings pieced together two health monitoring technologies: one that detects the heart condition atrial fibrillation, and one that measures blood oxygen levels during sleep. The ScanWatch sends light through the blood vessels in the wrist to measure the amount of oxygen in the blood. Monitoring oxygen levels could help detect episodes of low oxygen that occur with sleep apnea, a condition where breathing stops during sleep, Withings CEO Mathieu Letombe said in a press release. Blood oxygen readings are also integrated with other data around sleep, like sleep duration and quality. It seems to be a similar feature to one FitBit includes in its Ionic smartwatch. Neither FitBit nor ScanWatch would be able to diagnose sleep apnea — the devices would have to go through complex clinical trials to make that claim. Right now, a diagnosis usually requires a sleep study, which involves monitoring breathing rate, heart rate, and brain activity, as well as oxygen levels. But oxygen levels tracked at the wrist may be able to serve as an initial screen for potential sleep apnea, some research suggests. Comes in two sizes, the Apple Watch on the left is the 44mm Series 5, for scale The watch also has a heart rate monitor that catches irregular heartbeats, including atrial fibrillation. If it catches an abnormality, it alerts the wearer and tells them to take an electrocardiogram reading — which measures the electrical activity in the heart — by touching sensors on the watchface. The reading will then be available on the ScanWatch app and on the watch itself. Withings first introduced their electrocardiogram feature in the Move ECG watch last year. That watch has clearance for sale in Europe, but is still awaiting Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval, and isn’t available for sale in the United States. Withings said in a press release that the ScanWatch will be available for sale in the second quarter of 2020 for $249 (38mm) or $299 (42mm). But like the Move ECG, it still has to wait for FDA clearance — for all of its features — to go on sale in the US, and for a separate clearance to go on sale in Europe. So if that long-delayed process around the Move ECG is any indication, it might be longer before you can get ahold of it. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Withings incorporates two health monitoring tools into one watch Suunto’s first Wear OS smartwatch is taking on Garmin with outdoor offline maps View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook