https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/8/21050994/art-club
August’s latest smart lock is smaller, sleeker, and doesn’t need a hub - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Smart Home Tech CES 2020 News August’s latest smart lock is smaller, sleeker, and doesn’t need a hub New, 33 comments A new design courtesy of Yves Béhar By Dan Seifert@dcseifert Jan 8, 2020, 10:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: August’s latest smart lock is smaller, sleeker, and doesn’t need a hub Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: August August has announced the latest addition to its line of retrofit smart door locks: the Wi-Fi Smart Lock. The new lock is similar in appearance to the Smart Lock Pro, but it has a 45 percent smaller volume and is 20 percent slimmer than before. In addition, the new model doesn’t need a separate hub to connect to a Wi-Fi network, as it has the necessary hardware built right into it. It will be available this summer for a similar price as the Smart Lock Pro. August partnered with famed industrial designer Yves Béhar for this latest lock, though it has a very similar appearance to the company’s prior models. Unlike other smart door locks, which require you to replace the entire deadbolt, the August lock bolts onto the back half of the lock, which allows you to keep the same design and keys on the front of the door as you already have. The new model is roughly the size of a standard doorknob, according to the company. The Wi-Fi Smart Lock (right) has 45 percent less volume than the Smart Lock Pro (left). Photo by Dieter Bohn / The Verge Though it has a similar appearance as before, August says the new lock has been softened and rounded, with other small details refined. A new illuminated badge indicator makes it easy to see if the lock is closed or open from a glance. Controlling the lock is done through August’s smartphone app, and it also supports Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, and Apple HomeKit. The Wi-Fi Smart Lock is powered by two CR123 batteries, and the company says it will last about the same time as the Smart Lock Pro does with its four AA batteries. A new option in the August app lets you configure Amazon Dash to automatically reorder a set of batteries when it comes time to replace them. August refined the edges and made everything softer and smoother compared to older models. Photo by Dieter Bohn / The Verge Like prior August locks, the Wi-Fi Smart Lock bolts on to the back of your existing deadbolt so you can use the same keys as you already have. Photo by Dieter Bohn / The Verge Functionally, the Wi-Fi Smart Lock has many of the same features as the Smart Lock Pro, including August’s Door Sense that alerts you when the door has been open for a certain amount of time. (It still requires installing a magnet on the door frame for this to work.) You can also program the Wi-Fi Smart Lock to automatically lock and unlock based on when you leave and arrive. The one thing that’s missing from the new model is Z-Wave, so it can’t be added to Z-Wave hubs in the same way as the old model. August says the Wi-Fi Smart Lock will be available in either matte black or silver finishes when it hits retail later this year. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns August’s latest smart lock is smaller, sleeker, and doesn’t need a hub Smart tech is coming for your last safe space: the bathroom View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook