https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/9/21057762/art-club
This real-life Transformer might be one of the coolest robot toys ever made - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News Robot This real-life Transformer might be one of the coolest robot toys ever made New, 9 comments Autobots, roll out By Sean Hollister@StarFire2258 Jan 9, 2020, 12:32am EST Images by Vjeran Pavic / The Verge Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: This real-life Transformer might be one of the coolest robot toys ever made Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email I’ve always loved toys that have more than meets the eye. Hidden spring-loaded projectiles. Secret passages in my LEGO sets. And of course, Transformers toys. But while many of the best toys rely on a healthy imagination, it always felt like the Transformers were a little too slow for make-believe skirmishes and adventures; the good ones took far longer to turn into a robot than they did in the show. That’s why I’m sad I didn’t personally attend CES in Las Vegas this year — where you can see an unofficial Transformer toy that transforms from car to robot all by itself. You can literally say “Transform,” one of several voice commands, and the Robosen T9 will do so. And that’s just the beginning: with 22 programmable servo motors, this 3.2 pound robot can walk, drive, pose, dance, even do some push-ups on cue. You can program new gestures with a few different interfaces on tablet or phone, including the popular kid-friendly Scratch visual programming language that other beginner robots often use, and control it directly with a touchscreen joystick and buttons as well. And though I wasn’t at CES to see it myself, my colleague Vjeran Pavic captured some fantastic footage of it in action, some of which I’ve screencapped for you: The downsides? Well, you’ll have to pay a sky-high $500 to get your hands on one of these, for starts. That’s how much it costs at Amazon already (it’s $550 at Banggood), and the company says $500 is the right number — even though a Kickstarter campaign from earlier this year suggested the final retail price might be closer to $400. It’ll also be available later this year at some retail stores including Micro Center, the company confirms. Vjeran also says it looked a little plasticy in person, there’s no camera for your spy missions, and it also doesn’t exactly drive like a car in its car mode. It needs to bend its body just to manage a shallow turn: And of course, it doesn’t look much like a real car. Originally, they built a pretty convincing approximation of a transforming Optimus Prime semi — back when the company was known as SenPower — but they later evolved towards something that lies somewhere between “hot rod” and “moon rover”. Here’s an earlier design, which would have been far better for nostalgia value: Perhaps they just couldn’t get the rights from toymaker Hasbro. Anyhow, $500 is a bit too much for me to pay for a robot that’s not going to vacuum my entire house, but it’s not totally out of line for a kid-at-heart with a sizable budget. The Lego Star Wars Ultimate Collectors Series Millennium Falcon is still $800, after all, and DJI’s drifting pellet-shooting laser-tag playing programmable robot tank is also $500. Me, I’ll probably just watch the rest of this 18-minute Korean video of someone quietly playing with most every feature to satisfy myself that I’ve seen what it can do... and hope future versions will bring the price down. Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns This real-life Transformer might be one of the coolest robot toys ever made TiVo says its unreleased Roku and Apple TV apps are ‘on hold’ View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook