https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/29/21114377/tesla-coronavirus-delay-production-factory-china
Tesla says China has ordered its Shanghai factory shut down over coronavirus fears - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Tech Transportation Tesla says China has ordered its Shanghai factory shut down over coronavirus fears New, 2 comments It may ‘slightly’ affect the company’s profitability, the finance chief says By Andrew J. Hawkins@andyjayhawk Jan 29, 2020, 7:18pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Tesla says China has ordered its Shanghai factory shut down over coronavirus fears Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Xinhua/Ding Ting via Getty Images The Chinese government has ordered the shutdown of Tesla’s new factory in Shanghai over coronavirus fears, which will delay the company’s production of the Model 3 there, executives announced in a call with investors. The ramp of the Model 3 production will be delayed by a week and a half and the shutdown may “slightly” impact the company’s profitability in the first quarter of 2020, Tesla finance chief Zach Kirkhorn said. “At this point we’re expecting a one to one-and-a-half week delay in the ramp of Shanghai-built Model 3s due to a government required factory shutdown,” he said on the call. Tesla is one of several companies affected by the Chinese government’s order, which requires facilities to remain shut down until February 9th. Tesla began delivering the first cars produced at its Shanghai factory at the end of 2019. The deliveries marked an important milestone for Tesla, which hopes to use its Shanghai factory to gain a foothold in China, the world’s largest market for electric vehicles. Having a local factory speeds up deliveries and may insulate the company from the ongoing trade war between US and China. The Shanghai Gigafactory is the first wholly foreign-owned car plant in China. the new coronavirus could throw a wrench in those plans But the new coronavirus could throw a wrench in those plans. The new virus appeared in Wuhan at the start of December, and has already infected hundreds of people in nearly a dozen countries. The World Health Organization said that it’s too early to declare a public health emergency globally, although the outbreak is a major emergency in China. The government has said all companies in the city are not allowed to resume operations until next week. The company doesn’t expect too big of a financial hit, though, as the Shanghai-produced Model 3 only represents a tiny fraction of the company’s quarterly profits, Kirkhorn said. Tesla isn’t the only company to be disrupted by the viral outbreak. Google said today it was temporarily shutting down all of its China offices due to the coronavirus. Apple and Facebook both restricted employee travel this week. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Tesla says China has ordered its Shanghai factory shut down over coronavirus fears Delta is limiting flights between the US and China due to coronavirus outbreak View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook