https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/5/21125271/motorola-foldable-razr-phone-video-screen
Motorola’s new foldable Razr torn down on video before it even hits stores - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech Motorola Motorola’s new foldable Razr torn down on video before it even hits stores The paper-thin screen and two-part battery are not easy to remove, the video shows By Kim Lyons Feb 5, 2020, 5:41pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Motorola’s new foldable Razr torn down on video before it even hits stores Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email PBK breaks down the not-yet-released Razr foldable Motorola’s new foldable Razr doesn’t officially arrive until next month, but we’re already seeing teardowns posted online. The first is courtesy of PBKReviews, which posted a detailed teardown video of the device and its folding screen before the phone has even shipped to most customers. The hotly anticipated Razr is available for presale for $1,499, with current orders not shipping until March 3rd, according to Verizon’s website. The throwback to the Moto RAZR flip phone has inspired feelings of nostalgia among those clamoring for old-school devices, with Motorola delaying the original preorder and launch dates of the new Razr due to higher-than-expected demand. But if this first teardown video is any indication, the Razr will be difficult, if not impossible, for most people to try to repair if it breaks. The new Razr’s screen is paper-thin and delicate The 6.2-inch display screen in particular, which is the last part the reviewer gets to, is thin and flexible — as he says, “paper-thin”— and looks delicate enough that it could break when removed from the phone’s metal frame. The reviewer doesn’t try to pry open the hinge on the video, and he advises heating the glue holding the plastic front cover on the phone to avoid cracking it if you need to lift the cover off. The video also shows the Razr’s two batteries, one on either side of the hinge, and numerous tiny screws and cables that the reviewer carefully removes. Its bottom half houses the fingerprint scanner, as well as the USB port. The reviewer notes in the comments that the lighting in the video creates some glare at times. The hinge, he notes, is not as “crease-less” after rebuilding the phone as it is out of the box, but the body of the phone feels “very premium,” he adds. Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook