https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/7/21028136/art-club
Roland’s A-88MKII keyboard is a sign that MIDI 2.0 is on the way - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Music CES 2020 News Roland’s A-88MKII keyboard is a sign that MIDI 2.0 is on the way New, 2 comments The A-88MKII By Dani Deahl@danideahl Jan 7, 2020, 2:30pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Roland’s A-88MKII keyboard is a sign that MIDI 2.0 is on the way Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email MIDI 2.0 is close to being finalized, and Roland has announced its first keyboard controller to support the new protocol, as spotted by MusicRadar. Roland’s A-88MKII MIDI keyboard controller is an upscale product with wood components and hammer action keys that mimic an acoustic piano. The 88-note keyboard comes with a bunch of onboard creative tools, like customizable trigger pads and advanced arpeggiator controls. There’s also a control app for iOS and Windows to assign commands and create custom setups for instant recall. But, what really separates the A-88MKII from being just another keyboard is support for the upcoming MIDI 2.0 protocol, which the Midi Manufacturers Association has been working on for over 10 years. This next advancement is the biggest update to MIDI since it was first created, and it will allow for increased musical expression, tighter timing, and simplified connections between devices, among other things. Although MIDI is associated with music, MIDI files don’t contain any actual music samples. This is because MIDI is a digital interface that communicates data about music between different devices, like the sequence of notes in a melody and how those notes should be played. Image: Roland The original MIDI specifications were written back in 1982, and the protocol has stayed at version 1.0 for over 30 years. There have been a lot of enhancements since then, like Machine Show Control, which allows for control over non-musical equipment like lights and effect devices, and MPE, an amendment to MIDI that enables instruments to recognize expressive touch, like pitch bending or vibrato. But even though MIDI 1.0’s utility keeps growing, there are still many limitations. Several improvements come with using MIDI 2.0. Devices can now talk to each other and “agree” on features that both support. This should make MIDI systems easier to use as it opens up new options for devices to self-configure their connections. There’s also increased resolution (MIDI 1.0 messages are usually 7 bit, while MIDI 2.0 messages can be 16 and 32 bit), more expressiveness like per-note pitch bend, web-based integration, way more channels, and tighter precision with timing accuracy (also called jitter). As one member of the association says, if “MIDI 1.0 was a monologue, MIDI 2.0 is a dialog.” “MIDI 1.0 was a monologue, MIDI 2.0 is a dialog.” It’s important to note that MIDI 1.0 is not being replaced, and there’s a high priority on backward compatibility. The association says that rather, “it is being extended and is expected to continue, well integrated with the new MIDI 2.0 environment.” Many MIDI devices won’t need MIDI 2.0’s features to operate as normal, and some will likely use bits from both the MIDI 1.0 and MIDI 2.0 protocols. “MIDI 2.0 is just more MIDI,” says the association. Recently, C++ framework company JUCE spoke with several members of the MIDI Manufacturers Association who said it will likely take “several years for a wider range of MIDI 2.0 products to start coming to market.” The challenge with every MIDI update has been getting companies to support it. The association officially adopted MPE last year, but so far, only a few companies — like Roli, Sensel, and Roger Linn Design — have created products to utilize it. Last year, in an effort to avoid slower adoption once the new protocol rolls out, the MIDI Manufacturers Association locked in several companies to make prototypes with MIDI 2.0. Those companies included Google, Native Instruments, Steinberg, Yamaha, Roli, and, yes, Roland. Music conference NAMM is around the corner, and it’s very possible more MIDI 2.0-compatible stuff will pop up there. whenever MIDI 2.0 is officially here, the A-88MKII is ready So whenever MIDI 2.0 officially arrives, the A-88MKII is ready. Roland’s keyboard sports three user-definable zones, a pitch / mod lever, and eight multipurpose pads that can be customized to trigger commands and events. Additionally, Roland says the sensitivity and responsiveness of the keyboard can be adjusted to “match your unique playing style.” As far as inputs and outputs, there’s the classic 5-pin MIDI in and out ports, a dedicated sustain pedal input (plus two additional pedal inputs), and USB-C for power. An AC adapter input is also included as an additional power source, which Roland says is needed when connecting the A-88MKII to iOS devices with Lightning, using the Pad Camera Connection Kit. Roland’s A-88MKII will be available in March for $999.99. Find out more on the Roland website. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Roland’s A-88MKII keyboard is a sign that MIDI 2.0 is on the way TiVo gets into the streaming fight with the new $69 Stream 4K View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook