https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/13/21179167/trump-coronovirus-test-covid-19-isolation-bolsonaro-contact
Trump flip-flops on question of receiving a novel coronavirus test - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science US & World Health Trump flip-flops on question of receiving a novel coronavirus test He was photographed with a person who was later diagnosed with COVID-19 By Nicole Wetsman Mar 13, 2020, 5:29pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Trump flip-flops on question of receiving a novel coronavirus test Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images While at Mar-a-Lago last week, President Trump took a picture. In it, he’s standing next to Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro’s press secretary, who later tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Two senators who were also at Mar-a-Lago are self-quarantining. Miami Mayor Francis Suarez, who also interacted with the aide, tested positive for the virus. Trump, however, maintained at a press conference today that he does not have to quarantine. “I take pictures, and it lasts for literally seconds. I don’t know the gentleman that we’re talking about is. I have no idea who he is,” he said. Trump then said he did not need to be tested and that doctors should not be jumping to recommend tests unless they were absolutely necessary. When pressed by CBS News reporter Weijia Jiang on if refusing a test was selfish, though, Trump backtracked. “I didn’t say I wasn’t going to be tested,” he said. “Not for that reason, but because I think I will do it anyway.” He said that they’re working out a schedule, without specifying who he meant by “they.” Trump is 73 years old. Were he to become infected with the virus, he would be at risk of having a severe case of COVID-19. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Trump flip-flops on question of receiving a novel coronavirus test You can now take up to 12 ounces of hand sanitizer through airport security View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook