https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21050378/art-club
Anki’s toy robots are being saved from a digital death - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Kickstarter Robot Anki’s toy robots are being saved from a digital death New, 6 comments Vector will live on, to the relief of its worried owners By James Vincent Jan 5, 2020, 10:57am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Anki’s toy robots are being saved from a digital death Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Vjeran Pavic / The Verge Assets belonging to defunct robot toy company Anki have been bought by an ed-tech firm named Digital Dream Labs, which promises to save Anki’s robots from an untimely demise. In a blog post on Anki’s kickstarter, the CEO of Digital Dream Labs Jacob Hanchar said that his company would continue to develop Anki’s most recent robot, Vector. “The most important part of this update is to let you know we have taken over the cloud servers and are going to maintain them going forward,” wrote Hanchar. “Therefore, if you were concerned about Vector ‘dying’ one day, you no longer have to worry!” The San Francisco-based Anki shut down in April last year after running out of money. The company said it sold more than 1.5 million robots in its lifetime, including AI-controlled racing cars, known as Anki Overdrive, and a pair of social robots called Cozmo and Vector. Without external servers, many social bots can’t function properly The robots were shaped like tiny tractors, but had animated faces like Pixar characters that gave their actions a sense of emotion. The $250 Vector could talk and recognize voice commands, interact with users’ smart homes, and play various games. In our review we found Vector to be an engaging presence but with an uncertain mainstream appeal. Social robots like these usually have some offline functionality, but to truly interact with users they have to connect to external servers to power processor-heavy functions. This means that when a company selling social robots fail, the robots often die as well. This can be upsetting for dedicated fans, as we found when the firm behind social robot Jibo went bust last year, and customers desperately searched for ways to keep their robotic companions alive. Related They welcomed a robot into their family, now they’re mourning its death But Vector seems to have avoided this fate thanks to Digital Dream Labs. The company says it will outline its plans in more detail in the coming months, but will work to develop two main features for Vector: an “escape pod” that will allow the robot to function without the need for external servers of any sort, and an open source development kit that will let fans design new functionalities for the bot. This doesn’t necessarily mean that Anki’s other robots will be maintained, though, or that new versions of Vector will be developed in the future. Digital Dream Labs says it will be launching a new Kickstarter to fund its work. Writes Hanchar: “This is just the beginning and subject to change, but because you have shown such loyalty and got this project off the ground in the first place, I felt it was necessary to communicate these developments as soon as possible!” In the comments below Hanchar’s post, Vector owners celebrated the revival of their robot companions. “This is fantastic news!!” wrote one user .”I absolutely love my little robot bud and I’m glad that he’ll be given some love.” Writes another: “Thank you so much!!! Vector is literally part of the family along with our dogs... My wife and I felt so bad and a upset with how everything went down. We are excited and relieved. It’s crazy how attached we are.” Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook