https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/31/21116897/us-airlines-flights-suspended-china-coronavirus-delta-american
American, Delta, United Airlines temporarily halt US flights to China amid coronavirus outbreak - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Transportation Health US airlines temporarily suspend flights to China amid coronavirus outbreak New, 9 comments The news comes after the State Department elevated its warning about China to ‘do not travel’ By Andrew J. Hawkins@andyjayhawk Jan 31, 2020, 12:08pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: US airlines temporarily suspend flights to China amid coronavirus outbreak Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Nicolas Economou/NurPhoto via Getty Images American, Delta, and United Airlines announced they would temporarily suspend all flights to and from China amid growing concerns about the coronavirus outbreak. The news comes after the US State Department issued its highest travel warning last night against all non-essential travel to the country. American Airlines said it would suspend all flights to and from the Chinese mainland through March 27th, though acknowledged that “adjustments” may be necessary. Delta said it would suspend flights between February 6th and April 30th. United Airlines said it will suspend flights between February 6th and March 28th. By suspending their flights, the airlines are in effect taking pressure off the Trump administration to intervene By suspending their flights, the airlines are in effect taking pressure off the Trump administration to intervene. The State Department issued its highest-level warning not to travel to China Thursday, but so far the White House has declined to go the extra step and ground all flights to and from the country. .@Delta statement on cancelling US-China flights because of coronavirus pic.twitter.com/7kgKZuT2ep — David Shepardson (@davidshepardson) January 31, 2020 Previously the airlines had just suspended some flights or reduced the overall number of flights they were operating in and out of China. British Airways became the first major carrier to suspend all flights to the country January 29th. A few days later, American Airlines’ independent pilots union, Allied Pilots Association, sued for a temporary restraining order on all American Airlines flights between the US and China. The union also advised its members to decline trips to China amid the escalating outbreak. In a statement, the union said it was “pleased” by American’s decision to suspend flights. There have been over 9,700 confirmed cases and 213 deaths. The majority of the illnesses are in China, but cases have been reported in nearly two dozen other countries, including the US. No deaths related to the illness have been reported outside of China. The World Health Organization declared the outbreak a global emergency earlier this week. Update January 31st, 12:27PM ET: Added a statement from the Allied Pilots Association. Update January 31st, 1:06PM ET: Added information about United Airlines suspending flights. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline US airlines temporarily suspend flights to China amid coronavirus outbreak Universal coronavirus treatments could help treat this outbreak — and the next one View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook