https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/27/21156162/plague-inc-pulled-china-ios-app-store-coronavirus
Plague Inc. pulled from the App Store in China amid coronavirus outbreak - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Apple Gaming Apps Plague Inc. pulled from the App Store in China amid coronavirus outbreak New, 5 comments The game apparently ‘includes content that is illegal in China’ By Jay Peters@jaypeters Feb 27, 2020, 12:53pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Plague Inc. pulled from the App Store in China amid coronavirus outbreak Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by ROSLAN RAHMAN/AFP via Getty Images The popular game Plague Inc., where you create a disease with the goal of spreading it across the world, has been removed from the App Store in China amid the ongoing coronavirus outbreak. “We’ve just been informed that Plague Inc. ‘includes content that is illegal in China as determined by the Cyberspace Administration of China’ and has been removed from the China App Store,” said Ndemic Creations, the game’s developers, in a blog post announcing the game’s removal. “This situation is completely out of our control.” Ndemic Creations said it will attempt to contact the Cyberspace Administration of China to try to resolve the situation. In the meantime, the developer says it will keep supporting and updating Plague Inc. outside of mainland China, where the game is still available. In late January, Plague Inc. saw a resurgence in downloads in China and became the country’s top paid iOS game. In response, Ndemic Creations released a statement reminding players that Plague Inc., while it was designed to be realistic and informative about how diseases spread, is just a game. It’s currently the top paid game in the US App Store. “We would always recommend that players get their information directly from local and global health authorities,” the company said in January. In 2013, the Centers for Disease Control invited Ndemic Creations founder James Vaughan to give a talk about how games like his can help inform the public. Vaughan discussed Plague Inc. in an interview on the CDC’s blog. Related Plague Inc. developer reminds players it is just a game amid coronavirus outbreak Everything you need to know about the coronavirus All the ways China’s coronavirus outbreak is affecting tech In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Plague Inc. pulled from the App Store in China amid coronavirus outbreak Health secretary Alex Azar won’t promise that a coronavirus vaccine would be affordable View all 322 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook