https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/26/21155378/coronavirus-california-us-case-unknown-source-community-spread-cdc
First US case of coronavirus diagnosed without a known origin - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science US & World Health A Californian has contracted coronavirus from an unknown source The person didn’t have ‘relevant travel history’ By Elizabeth Lopatto@mslopatto Updated Feb 27, 2020, 12:42am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: A Californian has contracted coronavirus from an unknown source Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Mario Tama/Getty Images A person in California has been diagnosed with the new coronavirus, despite having not having any “relevant travel history” or exposure to someone who was known to have the illness, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in an emailed statement today. The patient is at the University of California Davis Medical Center in Sacramento, according to The Davis Enterprise. This may be the first instance of “community spread,” which is a term the public health community uses to say the source of the illness is unknown, the CDC said in its release. It’s also possible that the patient was exposed to a person who’d traveled, and didn’t realize they were infected. The Washington Post broke the story about the new patient. The person lives in Solano County and was transferred to UC Davis Medical Center from another hospital, The Los Angeles Times reported. The patient had already been intubated and was on a ventilator when she arrived at UC Davis on Feb. 19th, according to a memo about the case obtained by The Davis Enterprise. The UC Davis team immediately requested testing for the coronavirus, but the CDC didn’t test the patient until Feb. 23rd. The positive test results were announced on Feb. 26. The CDC statement came just after President Donald Trump ended a press conference where he named Vice President Mike Pence as the leader of the US response to the novel coronavirus disease, also called COVID-19. Pence, as governor of Indiana, slashed funding to public health initiatives and delayed introducing needle exchanges, leading to the worst outbreak of HIV in Indiana’s history. Pence replaces Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar. The coronavirus originated in China, which is still where most of the cases are. There are also disease outbreaks in South Korea, Japan, Italy and Iran. So far, there have been more than 80,000 confirmed cases, and more than 2,700 deaths. Update February 27th, 12:34AM ET: Adds details about the specifics of the patient’s case. Correction February 28th, 6:18PM ET: Corrects pronoun in the third paragraph. The patient is a woman. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline A Californian has contracted coronavirus from an unknown source Mike Pence, who enabled an HIV outbreak in Indiana, will lead US coronavirus response View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook