https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/26/21155221/cdc-infographic-facial-hair-mask-mustache-beard-coronavirus
This CDC infographic lets you know if your facial hair won’t work with a mask - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Health Coronavirus This CDC infographic lets you know if your facial hair won’t work with a mask New, 20 comments Most mustaches work, most beards don’t By Jay Peters@jaypeters Feb 26, 2020, 7:22pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: This CDC infographic lets you know if your facial hair won’t work with a mask Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: CDC The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is preparing for the potential spread of the coronavirus in the US. You might be considering getting masks or a respirator to cover your mouth and protect yourself. Before you do, note that the CDC does not recommend you wear a mask to protect against coronavirus unless you are already showing symptoms. But if you find yourself in a situation where you need a mask and you have facial hair that could break the seal of that mask, check out this handy CDC infographic, which I’ve also included at the top of this post, to know what facial hair you can wear while not breaking the seal of that mask. Any facial hair that fits entirely under the respirator should be fine In short, the CDC recommends that any facial hair that can fit entirely under a respirator should be fine. Where it looks like you might have some problems is if your facial hair is long enough or covers enough of your face that it pushes against the seal of the respirator. I love a lot of the images and names on the infographic. I really like Zorro, Zappa, and Walrus, and the image of the English mustache sticking out the sides of the respirator makes me laugh for some reason. I will say it’s a questionable choice to include a person with a Hitler-style mustache (sorry, “toothbrush”-style), though — that can’t be that common anymore. One important note about the infographic: it was not made as specific guidance for coronavirus. It was first published in November 2017 to tell people who want to do No-Shave November and Movember what facial hair works with tight-fitting respirators. But the infographic is still fun to look at, and its general guidance seems applicable for any situation where you need to wear a face mask or respirator. And I also want to reiterate that the CDC says you don’t need to wear a mask if you are already healthy. But if you do need a mask or a respirator, it might not work with a beard. Instead, you might need to pick from the CDC’s other facial hair recommendations. Related CDC flu pandemic plans hint at the playbook for a new coronavirus outbreak Everything you need to know about the coronavirus from China In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline This CDC infographic lets you know if your facial hair won’t work with a mask Microsoft says Windows and Surface businesses will miss expectations due to coronavirus View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook