https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/7/21128468/ships-coronavirus-ban-royal-caribbean-norwegian-cruise-outbreak-passports
Cruise lines ban Chinese passport holders over coronavirus fears - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Tech Transportation Cruise lines ban Chinese passport holders over coronavirus fears New, 25 comments Royal Caribbean and Norwegian Cruise Line are denying people with passports from China, Hong Kong, and Macao By Sean O'Kane@sokane1 Updated Feb 8, 2020, 11:54am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Cruise lines ban Chinese passport holders over coronavirus fears Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo credit should read ANDER GILLENEA/AFP via Getty Images Royal Caribbean and Norwegian Cruise Lines are banning passengers from their cruise ships who hold passports from China, Hong Kong, or Macao “until further notice” because of the coronavirus outbreak, the companies announced Friday. Norwegian tells The Verge it is also banning crew members who hold any of those passports. In addition, Royal Caribbean says it won’t allow any guest or crew member on board one of its ships if they’ve traveled “from, to, or through” China, Hong Kong, or Macao in the last 15 days, regardless of nationality — or anyone who’s come in contact with someone who’s been to those places in the same time frame. Carnival is reportedly following a similar guideline set out by the cruise industry’s trade group, but said after this article was published that it is not banning the passport holders. Norwegian Cruise Lines is taking it even further, saying it won’t allow guests or crew members to board if they’ve traveled to those places in the last 30 days. Only Carnival said that it is offering a full refund to affected passengers who have already booked travel; Norwegian Cruise Line and Royal Caribbean did not respond to questions about whether they are offering customers any sort of restitution. The news comes after at least three cruise ships have run into coronavirus outbreaks or scares over the last few days, two of which were quarantined. Multiple cruise ships have had coronavirus outbreaks or scares this week Early Friday, 27 Chinese nationals were screened for the virus on one of Royal Caribbean’s ships, the Anthem of the Seas, following docking in New Jersey. Four of those passengers were sent to a local hospital for closer observation, though no cases of the coronavirus were confirmed. The Anthem of the Seas was supposed to set off on a new trip on Saturday, but that has now been delayed; Royal Caribbean is offering passengers on that trip “a 1-day refund in the form of an onboard credit” plus “a pro-rated credit” if passengers “pre-purchased any packages such as, beverage, internet, or dining.” Both Royal Caribbean and Norwegian Cruise Line did not immediately respond to questions about what they are doing for customers who’ve been banned but had previously scheduled travel. Related Everything you need to know about the coronavirus from China Anthem of the Seas passengers have so far fared better than those on Carnival’s Diamond Princess ship, which is currently quarantined until February 19th off the coast of Yokohama, Japan after 61 cases of the new coronavirus were confirmed. A third ship, owned by the tourism arm of Malaysian conglomerate Genting, is currently quarantined outside Hong Kong after at least eight coronavirus cases were confirmed. There have been over 30,000 confirmed cases of the new coronavirus since the outbreak began in late January, with the majority in China. At least 638 of those people have died, while over 1,700 people have recovered. In the weeks since the outbreak began, the US government has tried to both limit travel to China and set up screenings and quarantines to reduce the chance of admitting any more contagious people into the country. The US State Department initially warned Americans not to travel to China, and told citizens who are already there to “consider departing using commercial means.” Related The new coronavirus is not an excuse to be racist US Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar has since declared a public health emergency, and the government started diverting flights from China to the US to seven airports for advanced screening. President Trump followed that move with a proclamation that any foreign national who tries to enter the US within 14 days of having traveled to China will be turned away. In turn, all of the major US airlines that operate routes to and from China have suspended those flights, as have a number of international airlines like Lufthansa and Air Canada. None of those airlines went as far as denying travel to China, Hong Kong, or Macao passport holders before suspending their flights. But airlines also operate in a far more diverse and competitive global market. Royal Caribbean and Norwegian Cruise Lines, meanwhile, collectively make up more than 30 percent of the overall global cruise ship market, behind only Carnival, and are therefore in a far more powerful position to take such drastic steps. Update February 8th, 11:53AM ET: Added information from Carnival Corporation about its restrictions and refunds. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Cruise lines ban Chinese passport holders over coronavirus fears Nvidia is no longer attending Mobile World Congress, citing coronavirus risk View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook