https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/30/21115784/art-club
You can now reserve your spot to pay for a Samsung Galaxy S20 - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech Samsung You can now reserve your spot to pay for a Samsung Galaxy S20 New, 7 comments It will apparently ship by March 6th By Cameron Faulkner@camfaulkner Jan 30, 2020, 4:22pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: You can now reserve your spot to pay for a Samsung Galaxy S20 Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Samsung has opened up reservations for its next flagship phones, expected to be the Samsung Galaxy S20, S20 Plus, and S20 Ultra, that the company will unveil at an upcoming event on February 11th. But this isn’t a pre-order. It’s more like taking a ticket while you’re in line at the deli. You enter your name, contact info, and preferred carrier, and — you’re ready to wait. It’s highly unlikely that Samsung will run short on supply, but by reserving a pre-order, you’re at least closer toward the front of the line to buy one on launch day. And not just that, those who reserve now and commit to a pre-order when they become available will receive a $35 instant credit to use on Samsung’s site. Speaking of launch day, Samsung mentions on its page that it expects delivery by March 6th. I wouldn’t take this as a confirmation of the actual sales date of the rumored S20, S20 Plus, and S20 Ultra. But it’s definitely a good hint as to when we might expect them to be available. We’ll be at Samsung’s Unpacked event where, hopefully, the company will affirm everything we think we know about its Galaxy S20. And maybe we’ll hear something about that rumored flip phone that’s being talked about as well. Reserve a Samsung Galaxy S20 Line up for the chance to buy Samsung’s new phone Visit Samsung Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy. In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 You can now reserve your spot to pay for a Samsung Galaxy S20 Samsung hopes 5G will save its slumping profits this year View all 54 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook