https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/29/21113575/coronavirus-lg-china-employee-travel-ban
LG now banning all employee travel to China to protect against coronavirus risk - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science US & World Tech LG now banning all employee travel to China to protect against coronavirus risk The company says future travel to the country will require special approval By Nick Statt@nickstatt Jan 29, 2020, 12:06pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: LG now banning all employee travel to China to protect against coronavirus risk Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Anusak Laowilas/NurPhoto via Getty Images Electronics giant LG is issuing a blanket employee travel ban to China amid the coronavirus outbreak. The South Korean company says it is also requiring all traveling employees currently in China to return home, while all future travel plans to the country must be approved through a special request. “Effective this week, LG Electronics has implemented a complete travel ban on employee travel to China. Non-China based employees currently in that country are required to return to their home countries immediately,” an LG spokesperson tells The Verge. “If travel to China is absolutely essential, employees are required to request and receive special approval in advance. We are confident that the disease can be contained if everyone — including corporations doing business in China — is prudent and makes safety of their employees their number one priority.” Related Everything you need to know about the coronavirus from China LG was among the first companies to publicly outline limits on employee travel plans regarding the coronavirus earlier this week, and it is now among the first companies to issue an outright travel ban. The virus has claimed at least 132 lives in China so far and has spread to more than 6,000 people, many of whom are located in the Hubei region of the country near the outbreak’s origin in the city of Wuhan. Yet many companies, including Apple and Facebook, stopped short of a complete employee travel ban, allowing so-called “essential” business travel to and from China for now. That may change in the coming days and weeks, and travel to China may become further restricted both for businesses and commercially, unless containment of the virus is successful. United Airlines yesterday announced it would begin canceling flights to China next month due to extreme drops in consumer demand, while American Airlines today announced it was suspending flights between Los Angeles and mainland China from February 9th to March 27th due to a “significant decline in demand.” The Trump administration is also reportedly mulling over a complete travel ban on all US-China flights. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline LG now banning all employee travel to China to protect against coronavirus risk American Airlines cancels some flights to mainland China after coronavirus outbreak View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook