https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/11/21125212/samsung-galaxy-s20-event-news-announcements-top-biggest-products-unpacked
Samsung Galaxy S20 event: all the biggest announcements - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Featured Videos Tech All of the biggest announcements from Samsung’s Galaxy S20 event Here are the highlights By Cameron Faulkner@camfaulkner Updated Feb 11, 2020, 3:02pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: All of the biggest announcements from Samsung’s Galaxy S20 event Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Samsung’s Unpacked 2020 event has wrapped. The company jumped right in with the announcements by unveiling the Galaxy Z Flip foldable phone, and introduced the Samsung Galaxy S20, S20 Plus, and S20 Ultra. If you want the play-by-play of each moment with commentary from The Verge’s Dieter Bohn, check out the live blog. But if you want the biggest headlines with the need-to-know facts, you’ll find all of that below. This post will be ordered from newest on the top to oldest at the bottom. Photo by Nick Statt / The Verge Samsung announces the new Galaxy Buds Plus truly wireless earphones These new truly wireless earphones feature speakers that are 40 percent bigger than the previous generation. They have three microphones, which Samsung says will make voice calls more enjoyable. You’ll be able to use these on non-Samsung Android phones or iOS, so long as you download an app to configure them. Samsung claims that the Galaxy Buds Plus have 11-hour battery life, and that the rechargeable case boasts another 11 hours. They ship on February 14th for $149. Google Duo and live captions are coming to the S20 and Z Flip Samsung announced it entered a partnership with Google to make Google Duo the default video chat app built into the dialer. Additionally, live captions (previously available exclusively on Google’s Pixel phones) will be arriving on the Galaxy phones. Photo by Vjeran Pavic / The Verge Samsung unveils the Galaxy S20, S20 Plus, and S20 Ultra Samsung’s latest phones are now official, and it’s releasing the Galaxy S20, slightly larger S20 Plus, and the S20 Ultra, which is even bigger yet. All three phones support 5G (though the standard S20 doesn’t support millimeter wave), feature the Snapdragon 865 processor in the US, and have a whopping 12GB of RAM. The cameras seem to have received a hearty upgrade, particularly the ones built into the S20 Ultra. Each phone is capable of recording 8K resolution video, but the S20 Ultra can shoot 100x zoom. Related The new Galaxy S20 phones are Samsung’s first to record 8K video How Samsung’s Galaxy S20 Ultra achieves its 100x zoom Image: Samsung Samsung officially announces the Galaxy Z Flip The Galaxy Fold was Samsung’s first foray into making foldable phones, and it got off to a rocky start. It’s trying again with the Z Flip, a flip phone-styled foldable phone. It has a 6.7-inch AMOLED screen. It comes in the colors mirror purple, mirror black, and in certain regions, mirror gold. The Z Flip launches on February 14th for $1,380. In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 All of the biggest announcements from Samsung’s Galaxy S20 event Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip should be more durable than the troubled Galaxy Fold View all 54 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook