https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/25/21194378/cbs-all-access-free-one-month-trial-binge-star-trek-picard
CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Good Deals Entertainment Tech CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard New, 20 comments Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon By Chaim Gartenberg@cgartenberg Mar 25, 2020, 3:36pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: CBS The first season of Star Trek: Picard is coming to an end on March 26th, and to celebrate, CBS is offering a free month-long trial (instead of the usual seven days) of CBS All Access to allow viewers to watch the whole season. The month-long trial doesn’t just give access to Picard, though; it’ll give viewers free access to the entire CBS All Access catalog, which includes every Star Trek show ever made (including CBS All Access exclusive Star Trek: Discovery), Cheers, CSI, CSI: Miami, Frasier, The Good Wife, The Good Fight, all of the NCIS shows, Survivor, The Twilight Zone, Twin Peaks, and more. You’ll also get access to live CBS broadcasts from your local station. Our #StarTrekPicard season finale is Thursday, and starting today until 4/23, you can watch for free on @CBSAllAccess in the US with the code: GIFT. https://t.co/i2IfFQN3I8 It's felt good to bring Picard back. I can't wait to reunite with our cast and crew for Season 2. pic.twitter.com/lSmtMxgrN8 — Patrick Stewart (@SirPatStew) March 24, 2020 To take advantage of the deal, sign up for CBS All Access using the code GIFT anytime before April 23rd. As part of that process, you’ll need to create an account and give CBS a credit card to charge when the month is up; the monthly payment will automatically renew once the free trial is up. CBS also allows you to cancel the plan immediately and still use the entire month — so you can sign up, cancel the plan immediately, and still enjoy the full free month without having to worry about remembering to cancel at the end of the trial. To do that, head over to the CBS All Access account page, scroll down to the “Subscription” line of the “Subscription & Billing” section, and hit “Cancel Subscription.” Your account will still work for the remainder of the 30-day trial, and it will shut down at the end (unless, of course, you enjoy the content so much that you decide to pay for another month, which is likely the whole point). Any way you slice it, it’s a huge library of content and live TV for free for a month, and it’s perfect for anyone looking for a new show to binge in the current era of social distancing. Next Up In Good Deals Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook