https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/24/21150508/overwatch-league-blizzard-south-korea-games-canceled-esports-coronavirus
Overwatch League games in South Korea canceled amid coronavirus concerns - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Esports Overwatch League games in South Korea canceled amid coronavirus concerns This follows the cancellation of several matches in China By Andrew Webster Feb 24, 2020, 9:04am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Overwatch League games in South Korea canceled amid coronavirus concerns Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Robert Paul / Blizzard Entertainment Blizzard has been forced to cancel even more Overwatch League games in Asia following growing concerns around the coronavirus outbreak. The company has canceled a series of matches that were set to take place in South Korea between February 29th and March 22nd “in order to protect the health and safety of our players, fans, and staff.” This includes a number of makeup matches that were moved to Korea following the cancellation of games in China as well as home games to be hosted by the Seoul Dynasty at the Dongdaemun Design Plaza on March 7th and 8th. “We are working with the league on rescheduling these matches and will share more information through the league when it is available,” the Dynasty said in a statement. Dynasty parent company Gen.G Esports previously said that it would be donating 100 percent of the proceeds from the event, along with merchandise sales through March, to coronavirus-related charities. Last month, Blizzard announced that it canceled all OWL games in China that were slated for February and March. Related Everything you need to know about the coronavirus from China The Overwatch League’s new season means travel, YouTube, and a constantly changing game The Overwatch League is currently in the midst of its third season, and it’s a vital one for the league’s future. It’s the first season in which each of the league’s 20 teams is slated to host matches in their particular city; OWL features teams in six different countries and three continents. Asia is a particularly important market for the league, with four teams based in China and many star players hailing from South Korea. “It wasn’t [a decision] we took lightly,” Jon Spector, VP of business operations and product strategy for Overwatch esports, told The Verge earlier this month. “We’ve been excited about playing those matches in China for years, the fans and the players are excited about it. But we never had a single discussion where player safety didn’t come first.” Three weeks in, all league games have been hosted by American teams, most recently the Washington Justice this past weekend. Of course, OWL is far from the only venture impacted by the coronavirus outbreak, and that includes several other notable esports events. The Chinese League of Legends Pro League suspended play just a week into the 2020 season, and it currently plans to kick off an online practice competition starting February 26th. Meanwhile, League of Legends Champions Korea is still playing matches but without spectators, and the King Pro League — a Chinese league for the popular mobile game Honor of Kings / Arena of Valor — will be played online instead of in studios and arenas. In This Stream Overwatch League: all of the news about Blizzard’s ambitious e-sports league Call of Duty League and Overwatch League are shifting to online-only games Overwatch League games in South Korea canceled amid coronavirus concerns Blizzard moves previously canceled Overwatch League games from China to Korea View all 39 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook