https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21028834/blue-adt-doorbell-indoor-outdoor-camera-apple-homekit-google-assistant-ces-2020
Blue by ADT launches a suite of HomeKit-ready cameras - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Smart Home Tech CES 2020 News Blue by ADT launches a suite of HomeKit-ready cameras Including a video doorbell, indoor camera, and outdoor camera By Cameron Faulkner@camfaulkner Jan 6, 2020, 9:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Blue by ADT launches a suite of HomeKit-ready cameras Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email LifeShield has changed its name to “Blue by ADT,” but the bigger news out of CES 2020 is that it has launched three new DIY smart home security products, and they’re available today. All of them are cameras, and the collection consists of a video doorbell (pictured above), an indoor camera, and an outdoor camera. As for what they all have in common: they each cost $199.99, can recognize faces, and each also supports two-way talking and custom motion zones for alerts. Arguably their biggest selling point is HomeKit compatibility, as Apple’s smart home protocol has been in need of an upswing in support like this. That said, it might be a little deflating to learn that HomeKit — along with Google Assistant support — won’t be available until Q2 2020. At launch, these cameras will only work with Alexa and IFTTT. One of the coolest features provided by all three cameras is how they present notifications on your phone. Instead of having to click through a notification to see the video feed, Blue by ADT’s new cameras insert a video clip directly into the alert so you can see if it’s worth your time to investigate further. The doorbell’s button turns red when recording through HomeKit, as is required by Apple. Blue by ADT’s new doorbell works via wired connection only, so only those with preexisting wiring for a doorbell will be able to use this. In this way, it’s competing against Ring’s Video Doorbell Pro, not the wireless-capable Video Doorbell 2. It has a 180-degree field of view (slightly wider than that of Ring or Nest’s latest video doorbells), records in 1080p resolution, is weather-resistant, and has night vision support. The indoor camera’s microSD slot is easily accessible on its side. The indoor and outdoor cameras look almost identical, though they have their share of differences internally. You’ll find microSD support on each (up to 128GB) in case you’d rather record on your own terms instead of paying ADT for cloud storage. They also both record in 1080p resolution. Here’s where they differ: the indoor camera can listen for fire and carbon monoxide alarms and alert you via a notification if it hears them, and it features dual microphones to keep a closer ear on things that are happening in your home. It’s a wired camera, but in the case of a power outage, its built-in battery can last up to 70 minutes. The outdoor camera is Blue by ADT’s only wireless camera at the moment. The company hasn’t shared how long it expects its built-in battery to last per charge. This model has IP65 weather resistance, a 130-degree field of view, and it records in 1080p resolution. ADT plans to offer professional monitoring for each of these products later this year for $19.99 per month, but at launch, you’ll be the one doing the monitoring. Each camera supports 24 hours’ worth of video storage for free. If that’s not enough coverage for you, Blue by ADT charges $2.99 per camera (or $12.99 for unlimited cameras) to extend it to 60 days. Blue by ADT had one more product to show off: its Chime + Extender. It plugs into a wall outlet and serves as a signal extender for your other Blue by ADT smart home tech. Other than that, the company says this product has a Bonjour server built in, and when HomeKit support goes live, it claims that it will allow for low-latency alerts when someone’s at the door, for instance. This is only the beginning for the company’s DIY smart home plans. Blue by ADT claims that in Q2 2020, it will launch a base station, keypad, motion sensors, and window sensors to supplement the cameras. All of these products, as well as its previous LifeShield products, are said to work harmoniously with each other. Blue by ADT says you can expect pricing details for the other smart home products to be made available closer to release. Photography by Cameron Faulkner / The Verge In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Blue by ADT launches a suite of HomeKit-ready cameras Mophie looks to the car to expand its line of batteries View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook