https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/3/21048598/art-club
8BitDo’s tiny $20 keychain controller is now available - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Tech 8BitDo’s tiny $20 keychain controller is now available New, 12 comments Smash anywhere, anytime By Dami Lee@dami_lee Jan 3, 2020, 3:13pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: 8BitDo’s tiny $20 keychain controller is now available Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email 8BitDo, which is known for its high-quality third-party controllers and its retro-inspired designs, is launching a tiny, keychain-sized Bluetooth controller called the Zero 2. It’s compatible with Windows, macOS, Raspberry Pi, Android devices, and both the Nintendo Switch and the Switch Lite. The controller, which was first teased last summer at E3, is now available to purchase for $20 and it comes in pink, yellow, and turquoise. Unfortunately, it seems the retro Nintendo finish from last year’s teaser image isn’t available just yet. At just 20 grams, the controller is small enough to carry around as a keychain, which the company provides. That’ll come in super handy if you’re at a friend’s place and you happen to need an extra controller, or if you want to play games on a flight but want to pack light. It charges via Micro USB, and one to two hours of charging time provides eight hours of play, 8BitDo says. It’s got the bare minimum amount of buttons you need for 2D games: a D-pad, four face buttons, two shoulder buttons, Start, and Select. It can be paired as an X-input or D-input device. Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook