https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/11/21083967/samsung-galaxy-s20-z-flip-keynote-live-blog-unpacked-event
Samsung Galaxy S20 and Z Flip keynote: live from Unpacked - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes Filed under: Mobile Live from Samsung’s Galaxy S20 and Z Flip keynote Samsung Unpacked is back By Dieter Bohn@backlon Feb 11, 2020, 1:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Live from Samsung’s Galaxy S20 and Z Flip keynote Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Samsung is back with another Unpacked event in San Francisco. The Verge is here to live blog the keynote, which begins at 11AM PT / 2PM ET. What should you expect? Phones, lots of phones. Specifically, the Galaxy S20, Galaxy S20 Plus, and Galaxy S20 Ultra. Plus, expect Samsung’s second attempt at a folding phone, the Galaxy Z Flip, which is rumored to be the first folding phone with glass instead of plastic on the screen. The S20 phones are likely to be the main focus, though. They’re Samsung’s flagship devices and the place where it most directly competes with the iPhone. All three Galaxy S20 phones are rumored to support 5G and have high-refresh rate screens, which will be two of the big phone trends in 2020. The big question mark is the camera, though. Can Samsung catch up with the Google Pixel and the iPhone 11 Pro? There are rumors of very high megapixel counts, which usually bodes ill for camera quality. Maybe Samsung will flip that script. Related What to expect from Samsung’s Galaxy S20 event As for the Galaxy Z Flip, there are more questions than answers. The biggest question, of course, is whether it will be durable enough for everyday use or if it will be as fragile as the Galaxy Fold was. We’ll also be keeping a close eye on the price: flip phones are cool; phones that cost too much are not. Tune in to our live blog right here! Watch the Galaxy S20 event live stream while you enjoy the live blog In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 Live from Samsung’s Galaxy S20 and Z Flip keynote Watch Samsung Galaxy Unpacked 2020 live View all 54 stories Apps Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Entertainment “With me” videos on YouTube are seeing huge spikes in viewership as people stay home Policy Postmates couriers are eligible for unemployment benefits, rules New York appeals court View all stories in Tech Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook