https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21051662/art-club
The headless robot cat company has made a headless robot kitten - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Design Tech CES 2020 News The headless robot cat company has made a headless robot kitten New, 4 comments A small friend for Qoobo By Dami Lee@dami_lee Jan 6, 2020, 12:05pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: The headless robot cat company has made a headless robot kitten Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Three years after Yukai Engineering’s headless robotic cat first wagged its way into our hearts, the therapy pillow is getting a smaller, portable sibling called the Petit Qoobo. Like its predecessor, the Petit Qoobo is meant for seniors in nursing homes or people who can’t own pets because of allergies or apartment rules but still want the loving embrace of a soft, cuddly friend. The idea proved to be so comforting that Qoobo owners asked for a miniature version that they could carry with them at all times. Thus, Petit Qoobo was born. In addition to vibrating softly to mimic purring and wagging its tail in reaction to a user’s touch, Petit Qoobo will also wag its stubby little tail in response to sounds. Its main selling point is that it’s small enough to fit in a purse, so maybe there will come a day in the future when it’ll be natural to see these pillows out in the wild. Though Petit Qoobo is just a prototype for now, it should be cheaper than the original Qoobo, which is available in Japan and the US for $149 on Amazon with an exorbitant shipping price of $50. Petit Qoobo is expected to be released by the end of this year. Image: Yukai Engineering Along with Petit Qoobo, Yukai Engineering is also showing off a newer version of its Bocco Emo companion robot, which was first unveiled at CES 2019. The adorable robot is more cheerful than its name would suggest, and it makes BB-8-like chirping sounds in response to the user’s emotions. It relays voice and text messages for people who don’t have smartphones like children or the elderly, and it connects to sensors that can monitor door locks, temperature, motion, and home activity. But most of all, it’s “designed to grow closer to your hearts every day, just as pets do.” The Bocco Emo is expected to be released in March 2020. Image: Yukai Engineering In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns The headless robot cat company has made a headless robot kitten Elgato’s new external capture card is a much easier way to stream 4K HDR 60 fps View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook