https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/28/21112288/coronavirus-foxconn-apple-iphone-outbreak-production-manufacturing-schedule
iPhone maker Foxconn says coronavirus outbreak won’t affect production - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Apple Science Business iPhone maker Foxconn says coronavirus outbreak won’t affect production New, 5 comments The Taiwanese electronics manufacturer says its schedules aren’t changing By Nick Statt@nickstatt Jan 28, 2020, 2:54pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: iPhone maker Foxconn says coronavirus outbreak won’t affect production Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: SAM YEH/AFP via Getty Images Taiwanese electronics giant Foxconn, which manufactures key products for countless tech companies including Apple, says it will not be adjusting any manufacturing timelines or closing its factories due to the ongoing coronavirus outbreak. The company, which is based in Taiwan and operates numerous factories in mainland China, said in a statement that it is monitoring the situation, but it’s not expecting it to affect any of its “manufacturing obligations.” “Foxconn is closely monitoring the current public health challenge linked to the coronavirus and we are applying all recommended health and hygiene practices to all aspects of our operations in the affected markets. Our facilities in China are following holiday schedules and will continue to do so until all businesses have resumed standard operating hours,” the company says. It’s referencing the Chinese government’s extension of the Lunar New Year holiday, a measure to try to mitigate the spread of the virus by encouraging citizens to stay home and avoid travel. “We can continue to meet all global manufacturing obligations.” “As a matter of policy and for reasons of commercial sensitivity, we do not comment on our specific production practices,” the company adds, “but we can confirm that we have measures in place to ensure that we can continue to meet all global manufacturing obligations.” This particular strain of the coronavirus, which health officials say originated last month in the Chinese city of Wuhan, has led to more than 100 deaths in China as of Tuesday and more than 4,500 reported cases worldwide, although a vast majority of cases are concentrated in China’s Hubei province. Due to China’s massive role in global manufacturing, and the sheer volume of technology companies that rely on its factories to assemble products, the virus has also affected numerous hardware firms in Silicon Valley and beyond. Facebook, LG, and Razer have all begun limiting employee travel to China, and some companies have advised employees who recently traveled to China to work from home. Danish gaming accessory company SteelSeries tells The Verge it has “restricted employee travel indefinitely to China.” Related Everything you need to know about the coronavirus from China For Apple, which relies heavily on Foxconn for iPhone production, there is concern the coronavirus may disrupt its manufacturing timelines for upcoming smartphones and other products. Nearly every new iPhone is assembled in factories run by Foxconn’s Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. subsidiary in Zhengzhou and by competing Taiwanese manufacturer Pegatron, which operates factories near Shanghai, according to Bloomberg. Although both manufacturers’ operations are each hundreds of miles from Wuhan, the outbreak still poses a risk, say analysts interviewed by Bloomberg. Any minor disruption in Apple’s sprawling and extremely complex supply chain throughout mainland China could lead to delays in production, the report states. Apple has yet to publicly comment on the coronavirus or how it might affect any of its operations in China, where Apple employs more than 10,000 employees across retail and corporate offices. Apple employees are also frequent fliers to China. Apple is United Airlines’ top enterprise customer due in part to Apple prepurchasing 50 business class seats on United’s daily San Francisco to Shanghai flight. However, United said on Tuesday it would in fact begin suspending flights to China in February due to the coronavirus, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also said Tuesday it would be expanding health screenings to 20 US airports. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline iPhone maker Foxconn says coronavirus outbreak won’t affect production United Airlines suspends some China flights after coronavirus outbreak View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook