https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/17/21141346/apple-miss-revenue-guidance-coronavirus-constrained-iphone-supply
Apple warns revenue will be lower than expected because of coronavirus impact - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Apple Business Tech Apple warns revenue will be lower than expected because of coronavirus impact New, 34 comments Worldwide iPhone supply is ‘temporarily constrained’ By Jay Peters@jaypeters Feb 17, 2020, 4:26pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Apple warns revenue will be lower than expected because of coronavirus impact Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge In a rare investor update on Monday, Apple said the global effects of the coronavirus outbreak are having have a material impact on the company bottom line. The company does not expect to meet its own revenue guidance for the second quarter due to the impact of the virus, and warns that “worldwide iPhone supply will be temporarily constrained.” Store closures and reduced retail traffic in China are also expected to have a significant impact. All of Apple’s iPhone manufacturing partner sites have been reopened but are “ramping up more slowly than we had anticipated,” which means that fewer iPhones than expected will be manufactured. As a result, “[t]hese iPhone supply shortages will temporarily affect revenues worldwide,” says Apple. The impact the virus is having on future product development is unclear. Apple is rumored to be launching a low-cost followup to the iPhone SE in March priced at about $400, and new iPad Pros with better cameras in the first half of the year. Bloomberg’s sources report no change in plans but suggest delays or constraints are possible. Delays or constraints on future product development is possible Regarding Apple’s retail presence in China, the company said that it is “gradually reopening our retail stores and will continue to do so as steadily and safely as we can.” The company says its corporate offices and contact centers in China are open. Cook echoed those sentiments in a memo sent to Apple staff, which was obtained by Bloomberg. “I want to thank everyone for their dedication, empathy, understanding, and care,” Cook wrote. “Our paramount concern is with the people who make up Apple’s community of employees, partners, customers, and suppliers in China.” In its latest earnings call at the end of January, Apple CEO Tim Cook said that Apple already had a “wider-than-usual” revenue range for the second quarter due to uncertainty around coronavirus. Still, it appears that revenue range wasn’t wide enough to account for the growing impact of the public health emergency. Apple also said it would be doubling a previously announced donation to help with coronavirus relief efforts, though the company hasn’t put a dollar figure to that number. Update February 17th, 6:17PM ET: Updated with Tim Cook’s memo to staff and a note about future product development. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Apple warns revenue will be lower than expected because of coronavirus impact Facebook cancels global marketing conference due to the coronavirus outbreak View all 322 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook