https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/11/21126318/samsung-galaxy-z-flip-foldable-phone-release-date-price-features
Samsung Galaxy Z Flip: new foldable phone unveiled at Unpacked 2020 - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech Samsung Samsung’s new foldable Galaxy Z Flip will arrive on February 14th for $1,380 New, 19 comments Samsung is using foldable glass and some cover display tricks By Tom Warren@tomwarren Feb 11, 2020, 2:04pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Samsung’s new foldable Galaxy Z Flip will arrive on February 14th for $1,380 Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Samsung is unveiling its latest foldable Galaxy Z Flip phone today. It looks a lot different than the troubled Galaxy Fold, and it folds up much like the new Motorola Razr. It’s clearly designed to be a full phone with a 6.7-inch OLED display that folds and shrinks into a much smaller square when it’s closed. Samsung is planning to launch the Galaxy Z Flip on February 14th, priced at $1,380. Think of it as a tiny phone that slips into a pocket or bag and can be folded out like a regular flip phone. The Galaxy Z Flip also includes a clever 1.1-inch OLED cover display that highlights notifications when the device is closed, and you can tap on them to get straight into apps once you unfold it again. You can even use this cover display as a viewfinder for the camera. Galaxy Z Flip’s viewfinder cover display The Galaxy Z Flip weighs 183 grams and is powered by Snapdragon 855 Plus processor, 8GB of RAM, and 256GB of storage. Samsung says it’s using an ultra-thin glass on its 6.7-inch display, which folds and will last for 200,000 folds. It’s called the “Infinity Flex Display,” and includes Samsung’s proprietary bendable Ultra Thin Glass (UTG). There’s no notch or cutout, and Samsung is using the unusual 21.9:9 aspect ratio on this 6.7-inch display (2636 x 1080, 425ppi). Samsung has also built a three-stop hinge that lets you separately use two halves of the screen when it’s propped up. It works much like a laptop, with a dual CAM mechanism to hold it open at a range of angles. The idea is you can sit the phone on a flat surface and take a selfie with the camera shown on the top portion of the display, and controls on the bottom half of the screen. Naturally, there are growing concerns over foldable phones after the Galaxy Fold issues, and Samsung addressed this onstage today. The Galaxy Z Flip’s hinge “prevents dust” from getting inside, and Samsung has developed special fibers to keep dust out. We’ll have to test the Galaxy Z Flip fully to see if this new hinge design lives up to Samsung’s promises. A foldable phone wouldn’t be a smartphone without a camera, and Samsung is including three. At the front, there’s a 10-megapixel f/2.4 selfie camera, and at the rear, there’s a dual-camera system with a 12-megapixel ultrawide and a regular 12-megapixel wide-angle camera. The rear camera system includes the ability to shoot night Hyperlapse videos or low light shots with Samsung’s night mode. The real promise of the Galaxy Z Flip is the software experiences, though. The 6.7-inch display will automatically split into two 4-inch screens in something Samsung calls “Flex mode.” Samsung has worked closely with Google to design Flex mode, a custom ui that’s designed for viewing images or YouTube videos. Samsung is also enabling multitasking on the Galaxy Z Flip with multi-active window support, so you can drag and drop multiple apps to display at the top half and bottom half of the display. Surprisingly, Samsung is planning to release this new Galaxy Z Flip in the US and Korea on February 14th in purple and black variants priced at $1,380. A gold version will also follow in “select countries” soon. In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 Samsung’s new foldable Galaxy Z Flip will arrive on February 14th for $1,380 The new Galaxy S20 phones are Samsung’s first to record 8K video View all 54 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook