https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/26/21154220/coronavirus-experimental-treatment-remdesivir-trials-us-china-ebola
An experimental treatment for the new coronavirus is being tested in the US   - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Health An experimental treatment for the new coronavirus is being tested in the US Research on unapproved drugs builds on experience gained during Ebola outbreaks By Nicole Wetsman Feb 26, 2020, 11:44am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: An experimental treatment for the new coronavirus is being tested in the US Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email The new coronavirus (yellow), isolated from a patient in the US. Part of A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic Researchers in the US are conducting a clinical trial of a treatment for COVID-19, the illness caused by the new coronavirus, the National Institutes of Health announced yesterday. There are currently over 80,000 confirmed cases of the disease around the world, and it has killed 2,770 people. Two trials of the drug, an experimental antiviral called remdesivir, have already been up and running in China for a few weeks — and preliminary results appear promising. “There is only one drug right now that we think may have real efficacy and that’s remdesivir,” said Bruce Aylward, an assistant director-general of the World Health Organization (WHO), at a press conference this week. In lab experiments, remdesivir blocks the activity of the new coronavirus in cells. It’s also effective against MERS and SARS, which are also coronaviruses, in cells. It hasn’t yet been tested against those particular diseases in humans. It was first developed by the pharmaceutical company Gilead to treat Ebola. A handful of COVID-19 patients, including the first US patient, have been given the drug under compassionate use, which allows doctors to give experimental drugs to patients when no other options are available. The treatment appeared to help in some of those cases, but it takes a clinical trial, like the ones that are underway, for experts to conclusively know if it works. The first site for the US trial is at the University of Nebraska Medical Center. The first patient enrolled was passenger repatriated to the US after being on the Diamond Princess cruise ship, which was quarantined off the coast of Japan and had an outbreak of the virus on board. The trial aims to run at a number of sites around the world, in order to allow people in the largest geographic area possible to participate, says lead investigator Andre Kalil, a professor of internal medicine at the University of Nebraska Medical Center. The goal is to enroll around 400 people with COVID-19. Only patients experiencing severe symptoms are eligible for the trial. “About 80 percent of people have mild disease. They will clear the infection on their own,” Kalil says. “The goal here is to help the ones that are in the most need, who acquired the virus and need to be in a hospital.” Participants will be randomly assigned to either receive the drug or a placebo. The study was designed to be flexible, though, and if it starts to show that the drug works, the patients in the placebo group will also receive it. The most important thing the study will measure, Kalil says, is if patients start to get better. It’s much more geared toward finding clinical improvement than toward finding a specific dose or understanding the way the drug works. “It’s amazing how fast this happened. This is landmark, that it could be done this fast.” The trial was put together in a matter of weeks. “It’s amazing how fast this happened,” Kalil says. “This is landmark, that it could be done this fast.” Results from the remdesivir trials in China may be available as soon as April. The US-run trial is scheduled to run through 2023, but there may be preliminary data within the year. Research teams and pharmaceutical companies are also working to develop vaccines for the new coronavirus, but that process will take much longer — a year to 18 months at the fastest, experts say. The remdesivir trials are just a few of the dozens of ongoing clinical trials testing treatments for COVID-19, targeting tens of thousands of patients. The scale and speed are remarkable — even more so given that, only a few years ago, the public health community was reluctant to use experimental treatments during active outbreaks. Like with the new coronavirus, there were no proven treatments available for Ebola in 2014 when an epidemic broke out in West Africa. At the start, the WHO was concerned that experimental products would increase the already-high levels of mistrust in health workers, and experts worried that focusing on research studies would take resources away from providing active care to sick patients. But the WHO quickly outlined recommendations for conducting research during the crisis, and trials on various treatment options started up. Scientists learned useful ways to structure trials and thought through some of the ethical issues involved. Experts discuss remdesivir during a conference in Wuhan. Photo by Xinhua / Cheng Min via Getty Images Those approaches were refined in the still-ongoing epidemic of Ebola in Congo, which started in 2018. A study of four different drugs found that two were effective — and did so in the middle of the ongoing outbreak. “This is the first time that a randomized, controlled trial has shown quickly and successfully what the best drugs are in the middle of an ongoing outbreak,” Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, which is part of the National Institutes of Health, told The Verge at the time. Researchers will hope to repeat that success now. The setup of the study for the US remdesivir trial is based on the design of the four-drug Ebola trial, Kalil says. The ongoing outbreak of the new coronavirus is different from the Ebola epidemics because it’s less deadly, but it’s affecting far more people in many more countries around the world. But the ongoing response benefits from those experiences, as will the response to any future public health crises. “We are learning,” he says. “What we learned from Ebola is definitely something that is helping us to be even better during this outbreak.” Update February 26, 4:51PM ET: Updated with comments from Andre Kalil. A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic Virus Basics 6 Everything you need to know about the coronavirus The coronavirus could stick around, but the way we fight it will change if it does If you’re feeling nervous about the coronavirus, you’re not alone Here’s who’s most at risk from the novel coronavirus Canceling events early can help keep an outbreak from getting worse Why we’re seeing some severe COVID-19 cases among younger people Virus Response 11 Coronavirus testing shouldn’t be this complicated How cities are fighting coronavirus on public transportation How emergency declarations are helping governments respond to COVID-19 The new coronavirus is not an excuse to be racist WHO declares the outbreak of the new coronavirus is a pandemic Trump signs $8.3 billion emergency coronavirus aid package Coronavirus-contaminated cruise ships mirror the global crisis All of Italy is being placed on lockdown due to coronavirus Prisons and jails are vulnerable to COVID-19 outbreaks Personal privacy matters during a pandemic — but less than it might at other times Scientists are racing to find the best drugs to treat COVID-19 How Tos 4 Everything you wanted to know about self-quarantine, from a person who’s living it A germophobe’s guide to a clean phone How to make your own hand sanitizer How to debunk COVID-19 conspiracy theories Virus Science 9 It’s going to take a lot longer to make a COVID-19 vaccine than a treatment The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is exploring at-home COVID-19 tests in Seattle How the coronavirus hitches a ride around your life The US has tested shockingly few people for the new coronavirus Continued travel bans aren’t going to stop spread of the new coronavirus Health care workers are at high risk of catching COVID-19 Stanford group wants to use your computer to help researchers study the coronavirus Coronavirus data from outside the outbreak epicenter is just as valuable as from the inside To fight the coronavirus, labs are printing its genome What the tech sector is doing 10 Electronics companies are getting gridlocked by coronavirus lockdowns Tech giants will keep paying hourly staff even if they are asked to stay home due to coronavirus Amazon, Google, Facebook, and Microsoft are asking Seattle-based staff to work from home because of coronavirus Postmates says it will start ‘non-contact’ meal deliveries during the coronavirus outbreak Amazon Flex drivers won’t be paid if they have to stay home due to coronavirus, but Uber’s and Lyft’s will Facebook temporarily bans ads for medical face masks to prevent coronavirus exploitation Google and Microsoft are giving away enterprise conferencing tools due to coronavirus Etsy has started cracking down on coronavirus merchandise Amazon has barred a million products for making false coronavirus claims Facebook confirms ban on misleading coronavirus ads Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook