https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21051081/bosch-smart-visual-visor-ces-2020-lcd-panel-concept
I want a smart visor to block out the sun because I lose all my sunglasses - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News Circuit Breaker I want a smart visor to block out the sun because I lose all my sunglasses New, 7 comments A concept for now By Ashley Carman@ashleyrcarman Jan 6, 2020, 12:29pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: I want a smart visor to block out the sun because I lose all my sunglasses Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Ashley Carman / The Verge There’s something called a “Visual Visor” here at CES. It comes from Bosch, and it can detect when there’s sunlight shining on your face, directly into your eyes, and block out the rays. It’s designed to keep your vision clear while you drive without you having to move the visor around and potentially block your view of the road. The visor, which is just a transparent LCD with 166 hexagonal pixels, relies on an RGB camera and a proprietary algorithm to shade your eyes. At CES, Bosch mocked up a situation similar to a car. It shined a light to mimic the sun while I sat behind the visor. At first, the camera took a few seconds to establish my skin tone. This is important because it determines where the sun is based on variances in that tone, or shadows on my face. The software also constantly tracked my face, particularly my eyes, nose, and mouth, to figure out where to place the shade. The team says the main challenge in building this visor was teaching the software when sunlight was shining on someone’s face and not something else. Right now, it’s unclear how well they’ve done at the job, given that the demo was in a controlled environment, but it seemingly worked as long as I didn’t hold something in front of my face or sit too far back. You can see in the image below how the visor shaded my eyes. Bosch couldn’t say much about its plans for the visor, but the team said it’s currently in conversation with commercial and passenger OEMs. The concept was neat, and I’m intrigued, especially because I’m always losing my sunglasses. I never want to give up my visor mirror, though. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns I want a smart visor to block out the sun because I lose all my sunglasses The headless robot cat company has made a headless robot kitten View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook