https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/11/21131622/art-club
Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip should be more durable than the troubled Galaxy Fold - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech Samsung Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip should be more durable than the troubled Galaxy Fold New, 4 comments A ‘fiber shield’ in the hinge traps dust By Dani Deahl@danideahl Feb 11, 2020, 2:30pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip should be more durable than the troubled Galaxy Fold Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Samsung announced its newest folding phone, the Z Flip, at its annual Galaxy event today, but the company promises it won’t be plagued with the same problems as its other folding phone, the Galaxy Fold. The Z Flip is Samsung’s second foldable phone, following last year’s Galaxy Fold. The Z Flip’s 6.7-inch display folds into a pocketable square shape, and the phone has an ultra-thin flexible glass display that should resist scratches better than the plastic screen it currently uses on the Galaxy Fold. Related Samsung Galaxy Z Flip first look: folding glass changes everything Samsung says the Z Flip is a more durable foldable phone, and can be folded and unfolded over 200,000 times. The phone’s hinge also has some adjustments. The hinge is where folding phones are most vulnerable, as this tiny gap between the hinge and screen leaves an opportunity for dust and sand to get inside. Samsung says it has placed a layer of fibers inside that space, which create a “fiber shield” to trap any stray particles. But it seems that there are still some caveats to the design. In a recent Academy Awards commercial that showed off the Z Flip, small print noted that “You may notice a small crease in the center of the main screen, which is a natural characteristic of the screen.” A crease is bothersome, but it’s a minor annoyance if that’s all Z Flip owners have to worry about. Consider that this phone comes in the wake of Samsung’s Galaxy Fold, which was a disaster when review units were shipped out last year. There were reports of screens breaking after a day or two, hinge problems that damaged the phone’s flexible OLED panel, and tiny crevices that allowed dust to get under the screen. After some tweaks, the second version of the Galaxy Fold fixed up these issues, but it’s still built with a plastic screen that my colleague Dieter Bohn said is “really soft and can easily get dinged up.” Whether the Z Flip can hold up to Samsung’s promises remains to be seen, but it looks like foldable phones are going to be a thing, at least for the foreseeable future. Samsung’s Z Flip costs $1,380 and will be available on February 14th. In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip should be more durable than the troubled Galaxy Fold Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip has the first folding glass display View all 54 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook