https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/28/21157417/league-of-legends-pro-league-lpl-china-online-games-esports-coronavirus
Chinese League of Legends league will play games online due to coronavirus concerns - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Esports Chinese League of Legends league will play games online due to coronavirus concerns New, 2 comments The LPL resumes on March 9th By Andrew Webster Feb 28, 2020, 9:05am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Chinese League of Legends league will play games online due to coronavirus concerns Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email 2019 world champions FunPlus Phoenix. Photo: Colin Young-Wolff/Riot Games Last month, just a week into the 2020 season, the Chinese League of Legends Pro League suspended play due to concerns surrounding the coronavirus outbreak. More than a month later, the league is finally set to resume — but it’s going to look very different. On Friday the LPL announced that the season would resume on March 9th, but the league is understandably taking some precautions. To start, all players will be required to complete a 14-day monitored quarantine period and “meet all local health requirements” before they can participate. Related Everything you need to know about the coronavirus All the ways China’s coronavirus outbreak is affecting tech The biggest change, however, is that matches will no longer be played in studios and arenas in front of fans. Instead, the LPL is shifting to an online format. Most teams will play based out of their local headquarters, with the exception of players who are in provinces under quarantine, and thus unable to leave. According to the LPL, this format will continue “until we can safely resume using the esports venues.” As the league notes, this will be the first time professional League of Legends matches will be played online instead of in a live in-person format. The LPL is currently one of the top esports leagues in the world, with lucrative partnerships from companies like Nike and a glittering international win record; the previous two League world champions hail from China. It’s also far from the only esports league dealing with the fallout of the continued spread of the novel coronavirus. The Overwatch League canceled several matches in China and later South Korea due to coronavirus concerns. Meanwhile, League of Legends Champions Korea, one of the world’s top leagues, is currently playing games in an empty studio in Seoul. On Thursday, the Masters Championship at IEM Katowice 2020, one of the premier Counter-Strike: Global Offensive tournaments, announced that it was forced to close to the public by the Polish government. The tournament was set to take place in the 11,000-seat Spodek Arena. For the LPL, Chinese broadcasts will resume on March 9th, while the league’s English-language channels on Twitch and YouTube will resume on March 15th. “There will likely be some unforeseen technical difficulties,” the league says, “but we will try our best to deal with them in a timely fashion.” In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Chinese League of Legends league will play games online due to coronavirus concerns Geneva Motor Show canceled over coronavirus fear View all 322 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook