https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/2/21046294/art-club
LG’s latest rollable TV descends from the ceiling like a projector screen - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News LG LG’s latest rollable TV descends from the ceiling like a projector screen New, 12 comments LG Display is also introducing a 48-inch OLED panel for the first time By Jon Porter@JonPorty Jan 2, 2020, 5:25am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: LG’s latest rollable TV descends from the ceiling like a projector screen Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email LG Display’s previous rollable TVs have all rolled upwards out of a box. The upcoming design will roll downwards from the ceiling. Photo by Chris Welch / The Verge LG Display has a new version of its rollable TV to show off at CES 2020, the company has announced. This year’s model works a little differently to the prototypes the company has shown off for the past two years, however. Rather than unrolling upwards out of its box, the TV will instead roll downwards from the ceiling; sort of like a projector screen without the projector. The company also has a new, smaller, 48-inch OLED TV display which will be unveiled at the show. It’s an intriguing idea. LG Display’s existing rollable TV concepts already minimize the amount of space they take up when rolled down, and the new version takes that even further by not even taking up place on a TV stand. According to LG Display’s press release, the TV “is stored in the ceiling and can be pulled down when desired and rolled up when not in use,” but unfortunately, there are no images to see how that works in practice. LG Display also has screens designed for aircraft which it will show off at CES 2020.﻿ Image: LG Display Alongside the new rollable TV, LG Display will also have a new smaller 48-inch OLED TV display to show off at CES 2020. Until now, the display manufacturer’s smallest OLED TV panels have been 55-inches big, making them impractical for many smaller homes and apartments. The new 48-inch panel will be on show alongside LG Display’s existing lineup of 55-inch, 65-inch, 77-inch, and 88-inch OLED TV displays. LG’s previous rollable OLEDs rose upwards There’s no word on when LG Display’s 48-inch OLED panel will find its way into a commercially available TV, or how much it’s likely to cost. LG Display is a distinct business unit within LG, and it provides OLED panels to a range of TV companies including Sony and Panasonic, in addition to its own parent company. LG tends to announce its lineup of OLED TVs at CES each year, however, so we won’t have long to wait to see if there are any 48-inch models among them. It’s a similar story when it comes to LG Display’s new rollable TV. Despite promising that its last prototype from CES 2019 would be going on sale that year, LG subsequently failed to make that release date. LG Display’s press release doesn’t mention if or when it expects the new rollable TV to go on sale, which suggests that a release isn’t exactly imminent. Alongside its TV panels, LG Display will also show off a range of screens designed for planes and cars at the show. These include a 55-inch transparent OLED display that’s designed to be used as an aisle partition, as well as a series of plastic OLED screens designed for use in cars. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns LG’s latest rollable TV descends from the ceiling like a projector screen The automatic trash can is here View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook