https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/7/21054788/google-assistant-screen-reader-translation-android-languages
The Google Assistant will be able to read articles out loud in 42 languages - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Google Tech CES 2020 News The Google Assistant will be able to read articles out loud in 42 languages New, 6 comments It should sound more natural than most screen readers By Dieter Bohn@backlon Jan 7, 2020, 1:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: The Google Assistant will be able to read articles out loud in 42 languages Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Google is “previewing” a new feature here at CES for the Google Assistant on Android phones that turns it into a supercharged screen reader. When you say “Hey Google, read this,” it will find the main text on whatever webpage or article you’re looking at and read it out loud to you. Screen readers aren’t new on phones, but Google says it has improved the Assistant’s ability to parse sentences and therefore speak them with more natural, human-sounding cadences. The flashiest feature, however, is that you can also ask the Assistant to read it out loud to you in a different language, up to 42 of them. You can hear an example of how the voice tries to sound more natural by parsing sentence patterns in the promo video Google has made for the feature: The Google Assistant has always been able to parse what’s on your screen if you give it permission to do so. The feature was launched in 2015 — before the Assistant even existed — and called “Now on Tap.” Primarily, it was designed to let you take Google-based actions like searching based on what’s on your screen. It launched with much fanfare, but since then the feature hasn’t gotten prime placement in Google’s ui; it’s been reduced to a suggested action button when you bring up the Google Assistant. This new screen reading feature may change that, but probably not for a hot minute. As this is just a preview, we don’t know when it will be released. Google says it’s also looking into ways to auto-scroll webpages as the Assistant reads, as well as automatically highlight text. While that feature is just a preview, Google is able to use the Assistant to translate on the fly in more real-world contexts. Google calls it “interpreter mode” because it takes a traditional Google Home Smart Display and sets it to always be ready to translate by default, so that it can be used at places like hotel desks. It’s available on phones now, but the feature originally shipped for smart displays. This year, interpreter mode is coming to more of Google’s partners, including JFK Airport Terminal 4, some airport lounges, banks, and several new hotels. Google is also working with Mercy Corps to provide interpreter mode speakers for its charity work. The preview and the expanded interpreter mode announcements go alongside other new Google Assistant features announced today, including better integrations with smart homes, notes, and slightly more transparency on privacy. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns The Google Assistant will be able to read articles out loud in 42 languages Watch Samsung show off its robotic BB-8 lookalike Ballie, AR glasses, and exoskeleton demo View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook