https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/7/21052028/art-club
Watch Samsung reveal its BB-8 lookalike robot Ballie and an exoskeleton demo - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Featured Videos Tech Watch Samsung show off its robotic BB-8 lookalike Ballie, AR glasses, and exoskeleton demo New, 3 comments A meandering look at the future, as envisioned by Samsung By Nick Statt@nickstatt Jan 7, 2020, 12:43pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Watch Samsung show off its robotic BB-8 lookalike Ballie, AR glasses, and exoskeleton demo Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Samsung’s CES 2020 press conference on Monday featured robots, exoskeletons, AI, augmented reality, smart cities, and basically every other technology category you could think of. The star of the show was Ballie, a robotic sphere with a passing resemblance to a volleyball. It’s fused with Samsung’s artificial intelligence tech, meaning it can identify people, stream live video, and operate various smart home gadgets like lighting, smart TVs, and even a Roomba. It’s somewhere between a Star Wars droid or perhaps real-life company Sphero’s very own discontinued BB-8 toy and the ill-fated Cozmo robot from defunct startup Anki. Hopefully, Samsung’s Ballie fares better than those two droids. From there, Samsung’s press conference veered off into a meandering series of tech demos and high-level concepts, including an augmented reality demo featuring its GEMS exoskeleton from last year’s CES and new AR glasses that combine with a virtual personal trainer for full-body fitness applications. There were also discussions on “smart kitchen” concepts, talk of smart cities, and new cutting-edge firefighter and health care tech. It’s a lot to take in, but thankfully, we’ve broken out the most interesting moments in the video above. The Verge on YouTube Exclusive first looks at new tech, reviews, and shows like Processor with Dieter Bohn. Subscribe! In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Watch Samsung show off its robotic BB-8 lookalike Ballie, AR glasses, and exoskeleton demo Delta will add a ‘binge button’ to its inflight entertainment screens View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook