https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21051109/loreal-perso-ces-2020-gadget-lipstick-foundation-skincare-makeup-beauty-influencers
L’Oréal’s latest gadget mixes lipstick based on what your favorite influencers wear - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News Circuit Breaker L’Oréal’s latest gadget mixes lipstick based on what your favorite influencers wear The Perso will create whatever color you want — but not until 2021 By Ashley Carman@ashleyrcarman Jan 5, 2020, 10:45pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: L’Oréal’s latest gadget mixes lipstick based on what your favorite influencers wear Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Ashley Carman / The Verge L’Oréal is continuing to advance into the tech space with the announcement of its Bluetooth-connected Perso — a gadget that’ll mix up lipstick, foundation, or a skincare regimen that’s customized to whoever owns it. The company demoed the lipstick- and skincare-creation process at CES today, including how the device’s companion app can pull trending images from social media to whip up a lipstick color. The demo app that the company had at CES is stocked with a preloaded bank of images, but a spokesperson tells me that when it’s officially available in 2021, people will be able to hook up their social media accounts to the app and get color inspiration from there. The idea is that you can match whatever your favorite influencer is wearing or re-create a specific look. You can preview that color on yourself using augmented reality before committing to making it. Once you decide to create that color, the Perso uses three swappable color cartridges to squirt out the right amount of each color that, when mixed together, create your desired look. The cartridges should supply enough lipstick for 30 applications. The foundation process presumably works similarly in that it’ll match its colors to your skin tone on a specific day, but I didn’t see that demoed. The skincare version of the Perso involves the app scanning your face from various angles and diagnosing your problem areas and then creating a morning and nighttime regimen. Unlike the lipstick and foundation, which take color cartridges, the skincare cartridges are an SPF, serum, and moisturizer. As a CES veteran who’s always interested in skincare and critical feedback, I’ve had my face scanned by many beauty apps over the years, and L’Oréal’s iteration didn’t strike me as revolutionary. (My dark spots are a problem, I get it!) But it combines the trend of using AI to detect an issue with the desire for personalization. Photo by Ashley Carman / The Verge Every year at CES, we hear about more gadgets that promise to point out your skin flaws and make them a priority in your regimen. Companies have released apps that can identify problems and then make product recommendations around them, and other companies have built those apps into smart mirrors that perform the same function. Makeup companies have perfected the AR try-on, too. Last year, for instance, Kylie Jenner created an Instagram filter for her lipstick line. Personalization is the future the beauty companies are building, and the Perso is just the latest gadget to make it a full-blown, popular reality. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns L’Oréal’s latest gadget mixes lipstick based on what your favorite influencers wear Samsung’s new Galaxy S10 Lite and Note 10 Lite phones are deeply confusing View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook