https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/28/21112204/art-club
United Airlines suspends some China flights after coronavirus outbreak - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Tech Transportation United Airlines suspends some China flights after coronavirus outbreak New, 2 comments Some early February flights have been axed because of ‘significant decline in demand’ By Sean O'Kane@sokane1 Jan 28, 2020, 2:43pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: United Airlines suspends some China flights after coronavirus outbreak Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Daniel Slim / AFP via Getty Images United Airlines is suspending some flights to and from China because of a “significant decline in demand” brought on by the emerging coronavirus outbreak, the company announced on Tuesday. Flights between major US hubs and Beijing, Shanghai, and Hong Kong will be suspended between February 1st and February 8th, CNBC reports. United offers more flights to and from China than any other US airline. It provides about 12 flights per day between the US and China (and Hong Kong), but that total number will decrease by about “three or four” per day, according to CNBC. Specifically, the company is reducing the number of flights at San Francisco, Newark, Chicago, and Washington Dulles airports. Related Everything you need to know about the coronavirus from China The virus, which first appeared in Wuhan, China, has killed more than 100 people in that country and infected over 4,000 people worldwide. United says it’s suspending the flights because demand for travel between China and the US has dropped in the days since the outbreak began, rather than as part of any attempt to stop the spread. That’s not totally surprising; both the US State Department and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention told people this week to reconsider or avoid nonessential travel to China. The CDC has also expanded enhanced health screenings for the coronavirus to 20 US airports. Other US airlines, like Delta and American, have announced that they’re waiving fees for people who want to change their scheduled flights through the end of February. But they haven’t suspended any flights yet. “We have not adjusted our flight schedule at this time,” Curtis Blessing, a spokesperson for American Airlines, said via email. “We are continuing to monitor the situation very closely.” Delta Air Lines similarly said it has not made any changes to its operating schedule. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline United Airlines suspends some China flights after coronavirus outbreak To contain disease outbreaks, health officials rely on people’s trust View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook