https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/11/21133774/flipboard-tv-subscription-service-short-form-video-samsung-galaxy-s20
Flipboard will soon share short videos alongside the news for $3 a month - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Apps Tech Samsung Flipboard will soon share short videos alongside the news for $3 a month New, 6 comments Flipboard TV will come preinstalled on Galaxy S20 phones By Dani Deahl@danideahl Feb 11, 2020, 6:41pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Flipboard will soon share short videos alongside the news for $3 a month Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Flipboard News aggregator app Flipboard is launching a new ad-free curated video service called Flipboard TV that will come preinstalled on Samsung’s new Galaxy S20 phones and cost $3 a month. The service will be exclusive to the S20 for three months, and then roll out to all the other places Flipboard is available. Flipboard TV focuses on short-form videos delivered in a customized news feed, which you’ll find under a new dedicated tab in the Flipboard app. The feed will algorithmically suggest videos based on your interests, and users can follow videos based on things like topic or publication to populate their feed. Some of the outlets already on board for Flipboard TV include The Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg, Rolling Stone, Variety, and more along with local news outlets in cities like Des Moines, Orlando, and Sacramento. Wired says its publisher Conde Nast is also in talks. Flipboard says there will be over 100 sources at launch, and the service will focus on professionally-produced videos in a premium, ad-free setting. Flipboard’s CEO tells Wired that the company has no plans to produce its own original video content. Again, that premium doesn’t come for free. Flipboard TV will cost $2.99 a month, though Samsung Galaxy S20 owners will get a three-month free trial. Although Flipboard has historically been a gratis app, the company is betting on concentrating high quality, short-form videos in one place, as opposed to platforms like YouTube which can be a grab bag. Of course, there are plenty of places that offer ad-free video experiences, like Amazon, Hulu, Netflix, and, when it launches, Quibi. But Flipboard CEO Mike McCue doesn’t seem to be worried about subscription fatigue, telling Wired that “It’s a kind of renaissance era right now with premium quality content.” In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 Flipboard will soon share short videos alongside the news for $3 a month Samsung confirms its AirDrop-like ‘Quick Share’ is launching on the Galaxy S20 View all 54 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook