https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/10/21131144/samsung-galaxy-home-mini-leaked-video-screenshots-ir-blaster-functionality
Samsung’s Galaxy Home Mini caught on video ahead of rumored Wednesday release - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Samsung Artificial Intelligence Samsung’s Galaxy Home Mini caught on video ahead of rumored Wednesday release New, 3 comments Alongside plenty of companion app screenshots By Jon Porter@JonPorty Feb 10, 2020, 6:48am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Samsung’s Galaxy Home Mini caught on video ahead of rumored Wednesday release Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Samsung A whole host of images, videos, and screenshots of Samsung’s Galaxy Home Mini have been posted online by XDA-Developers’ Max Weinbach, giving us our most detailed look yet at Samsung’s unreleased smart speaker. In a page that was subsequently taken down, Samsung previously said the device will be released on February 12th, one day after its Galaxy S20 launch event. In particular, the leak details the speaker’s IR blaster functionality, which can be used to control TVs, set-top boxes, and fans at a range of up to 40 feet. The IR controller isn’t entirely unique to the Galaxy Home Mini, after Amazon included it on its Fire TV Cube smart speaker and Fire TV Blaster accessory, but it should help the Galaxy Home Mini control devices beyond those that are SmartThings-compatible. It lives! https://t.co/kJ1X7LZUxi pic.twitter.com/TYWTfnrIvz — Max Weinbach (@MaxWinebach) February 9, 2020 Otherwise, it looks like the Galaxy Home Mini will support many of the features we’ve come to expect from existing smart speakers, including playing music from Spotify, providing weather information, setting alarms, and providing news reports. The Galaxy Home Mini can be paired with another to provide better stereo sound, you can stream to the speaker over Bluetooth, and it can receive notifications from SmartThings devices. The leak also includes some details on its potential limitations. The speaker doesn’t have a 3.5-mm line-out port, and it also appears to be powered over micro USB rather than USB-C, according to a picture posted of its underside. Weinbach also reports that the Galaxy Home Mini only supports 2.4GHz Wi-Fi, with no 5GHz connectivity in sight. Oh, and obviously the speaker uses the Bixby smart assistant, whose functionality generally lags behind what’s offered by Alexa and Google Assistant. Samsung’s smart speakers have a bit of a weird history. The first Bixby-powered speaker, the Galaxy Home, was announced back in August 2018, but has since faced multiple delays and is still yet to be released. Then, seemingly out of nowhere, Samsung announced the smaller Galaxy Home Mini, which it said would launch early this year. Samsung’s Unpacked event kicks off tomorrow, February 11th, where we hope to see more. In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 Samsung’s Galaxy Home Mini caught on video ahead of rumored Wednesday release Samsung’s Galaxy Buds Plus detailed in new hands-on video View all 54 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook