https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/8/21055351/art-club
Smart tech is coming for your last safe space: the bathroom - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science CES 2020 News Health Smart tech is coming for your last safe space: the bathroom New, 22 comments These personal hygiene brands want to offer us ‘smarter’ ways to shave and shit By Justine Calma@justcalma Jan 8, 2020, 9:15am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Smart tech is coming for your last safe space: the bathroom Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email There’s no shortage of gadgets at CES ready to invade the last bastion of privacy at home: the bathroom. The intruders aren’t just startups hoping to revolutionize the way we use the bathroom or even companies that manufacture the fixtures we need to get ready each morning. Brands that make personal hygiene products — like Bic, Oral-B, and Charmin — also want in on the action. These brands want to start collecting data as they get closer to our crevices These brands want to start collecting data as they get closer to our crevices. In exchange, they offer detailed information about how much grime is on our teeth — or even how much our poop stinks. In theory, users can have more personalized personal time, and the companies can get some more information as they start building their next iteration of devices. But do we really need any of this? Probably not. Bic unveiled a prototype for an AI-enabled razor and accompanying app on January 6th. The shaver tracks everything from hair density, shaving speed, the number of strokes, time spent shaving, and blade dullness to environmental factors like temperature and humidity. All of that information is supposed to deliver its users a more personalized shave and improve the razors of the future. The company is enlisting people to try out the prototype so that it can gather data to “create its next generation of shavers, perfectly adapted to today’s users, their different skin types and their shaving habits,” according to its website. While the benefits of Bic’s data collection might still be ahead, a new generation of smart toothbrushes is already vying for a spot in our medicine cabinets. Oral-B and Colgate have toothbrushes on the market that can tell you how to brush better by tracking your movements while you’re in the act. They brought new models to CES again this year. Colgate’s new Plaqless Pro Toothbrush glows blue when it comes across plaque buildup. Just think of it like the blade Sting from The Lord of the Rings in the presence of orcs... if the orcs were fortifying locations in your mouth instead of Middle-earth. Charmin didn’t take itself too seriously while imagining the bathroom of the future at CES. It showed off a prototype sensor, shaped like its trademark bear, that “sniffs” the air so that it can warn you if the bathroom smells awful. It works by detecting carbon dioxide or hydrogen sulfide “found in a *toot* or *two*,” according to a press release. Based on the sensor’s reading, a separate display monitor will indicate if it’s safe to enter the bathroom or if you’re in for a doozy. Charmin’s also got a prototype “RollBot,” which is a robot shaped like a bear that you can summon to grab a new roll of toilet paper using your smartphone if you’re ever in a pinch. a robot shaped like a bear that you can summon to grab toilet paper “The concepts we’re bringing to CES are a playful way to showcase our relentless obsession with helping people Enjoy the Go now and into the future,” Rob Reinerman, Charmin’s brand director, said in a statement. Do consumers need brands’ “relentless obsession” with enhancing our most intimate moments? Kohler has a smart toilet, mirror, showerhead, and tub to perfectly set the mood with lights, sound, and temperature controls. But razors, toothbrushes, and toilet paper — stuff we get so up close and personal with — are a different ballgame. Personal hygiene products probably don’t need to worry about getting left behind if they don’t hop on the “smart home” bandwagon. We’ll still need something to wipe our butts. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Smart tech is coming for your last safe space: the bathroom Foldable and dual-screen laptops desperately need Windows 10X View all 176 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook