https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/30/21115079/art-club
The Outer Worlds is coming to the Nintendo Switch on March 6th - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Tech The Outer Worlds is coming to the Nintendo Switch on March 6th New, 16 comments Following its launch on PC, PS4, and Xbox One By Jon Porter@JonPorty Jan 30, 2020, 9:45am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: The Outer Worlds is coming to the Nintendo Switch on March 6th Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Private Division The Outer Worlds, the Obsidian-developed first-person RPG, is releasing on the Nintendo Switch on March 6th, the company announced today. The game’s Switch port was announced in July last year, before an investor call confirmed that it would arrive in early 2020. Now, however, we know the exact date it will arrive. Its debut on the Nintendo Switch follows versions released for the PC, PS4, and Xbox One in October last year. Created by the writers of the original Fallout games, The Outer Worlds is the kind of open-ended RPG that’s designed to let you approach its missions however you see fit. It ranks among some of the best games released last year, and it’s well worth a play if you’ve been holding out for a more portable version. Citizens of Halcyon! We are proud to announce that we're extending the universe of #TheOuterWorlds to Nintendo Switch on March 6th. Get ready to play the award-winning RPG on-the-go soon! pic.twitter.com/Qkqlm0i7hY — Private Division (@PrivateDivision) January 30, 2020 The Outer Worlds will cost $59.99, and will be available as a digital release or in a physical box with a download code. Oh, and try not to get it confused with Outer Wilds, the space-exploration indie game released last year for PC, PS4, and Xbox One that’s set in a solar system that explodes roughly every 20 minutes. Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook