https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/28/21156368/geneva-motor-show-2020-canceled-coronavirus-concerns
Geneva Motor Show canceled after coronavirus causes government to ban large events  - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Transportation Cars Geneva Motor Show Geneva Motor Show canceled after coronavirus causes government to ban large events New, 5 comments Switzerland bans gatherings of 1,000 or more people By Sean O'Kane@sokane1 Feb 28, 2020, 5:06am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Geneva Motor Show canceled after coronavirus causes government to ban large events Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Vlad Savov / The Verge The 2020 Geneva Motor Show is canceled after the Swiss government banned gatherings of 1,000 people or more on Friday due to concerns over the coronavirus. The ban is effective immediately and runs at least until March 15th. The 90th edition of GIMS was scheduled to start next week. “We regret this situation, but the health of all participants is our and our exhibitors’ top priority. This is a case of force majeure and a tremendous loss for the manufacturers who have invested massively in their presence in Geneva. However, we are convinced that they will understand this decision,” said motor show chairman Maurice Turrettini in a statement. Tickets already purchased for the event will be refunded. The Geneva Motor Show isn’t the biggest car show in the world, but it’s the one where automakers typically like to announce their flashiest, most future-facing vehicles and concepts. Last year we saw the debut of “megacars” like the Koenigsegg Jesko, VW’s electric dune buggy concept, and the Pininfarina Battista, one of the fastest electric vehicles on the planet. Geneva is the latest trade show to get the axe Geneva is the latest trade show to get the axe following the coronavirus outbreak. In the tech world, the most notable have been the cancellation of Mobile World Congress, which is the biggest smartphone show in the world, and Facebook’s F8 developer conference. Some sporting events have been cancelled, too. Both Formula One and Formula E have canceled races in China, and the International Olympic Committee has faced increasing questions about this year’s summer olympics in Japan. Palexpo, the foundation that puts on the Geneva Motor Show, had tried to keep it afloat by issuing a slate of warnings to attendees. It said it would increase the rate of cleaning and disinfection around the convention center, asked exhibitors from “at-risk areas” to screen their staff, and advised attendees to regularly wash their hands and also keep at least three feet away from anyone “who is coughing or sneezing.” At least two automakers that had planned to attend have said they will do “digital press conferences instead. BMW said Friday it now will unveil its i4 electric concept sedan via digital press conference on Tuesday, March 3rd, while Mercedes-Benz will announce its new E-Class in a similar manner. Pininfarina told The Verge that it will simply release information about its planned announcement online, but that it’s also “discussing ideas for a physical world premiere to follow.” Fiat Chrysler has “no plan B, but [said] it was considering ways to show off a new electric Fiat 500,” according to Reuters, while Audi told the outlet that it would digitally release information about its new Audi A3 sportback and Audi E-Tron S. Update February 28th, 6:40AM ET: Added statement from Maurice Turrettini. Update February 28th, 9:58AM ET: Added information about BMW, Mercedes-Benz, and Pininfarina. Update February 28th, 1:22PM ET: Added information about FCA and Audi. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Geneva Motor Show canceled over coronavirus fear Tim Cook says Apple is reopening factories as China gets ‘coronavirus under control’ View all 322 stories Next Up In Transportation Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook