https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/27/21197449/disney-land-disneyworld-park-closure-coronavirus-film-tv-streaming-espn-cruises
In an unprecedented move, Disney parks will remain closed until further notice  - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Disney Coronavirus In an unprecedented move, Disney parks will remain closed until further notice Another hit to Disney’s overall business right now By Julia Alexander Mar 27, 2020, 4:34pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: In an unprecedented move, Disney parks will remain closed until further notice Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Joe Burbank/Orlando Sentinel/Tribune News Service Disney originally aimed to reopen its various theme parks by April 1st, but in light of the rapid spread of the novel coronavirus and recommendations from both local authorities and health experts, Disneyland and Disney World will remain closed until further notice. “While there is still much uncertainty with respect to the impacts of COVID-19, the safety and well-being of our guests and employees remains The Walt Disney Company’s top priority,” a tweet from an official Disney Parks account reads. The company will continue paying its hourly parks and resorts employees through April 18th, the statement added. It’s unclear if this also applies to parks around the world, including in Paris, Tokyo, Shanghai, and Hong Kong, but The Verge has reached out for more information. “The impact of the novel coronavirus and measures to prevent its spread are affecting our businesses in a number of ways” Disneyland and Disney World began closing on Sunday, March 15th. They were initially going to say closed through March 31st. Part of the resorts will remain open, including retail and dining experiences at Disney World Resort. Disney’s parks in the United States joined Paris, Shanghai, Hong Kong, and Tokyo in closing, marking the first time in history that all seven resorts, including their various parks, were all closed at one time. Disneyland has only closed twice before: on November 23rd, 1963 in a day of national mourning for President John F. Kennedy, and on September 11th, 2001 because of the attacks in New York and Washington, DC. Disney’s parks business generates approximately $20 billion a year in revenue for the House of Mouse. Continuing to keep the parks closed will have a strong impact on the company’s financial situation. Executives at Disney outlined as much in a recent SEC filing for investors, noting that “the impact of the novel coronavirus and measures to prevent its spread are affecting our businesses in a number of ways.” Disney’s parks have closed, cruises are suspended, and theatrical movies have been delayed. Production delays and sports leagues hitting pause have also affected content creation for both film and television and left ESPN in a bind. “We expect the ultimate significance of the impact of these disruptions, including the extent of their adverse impact on our financial and operational results, will be dictated by the length of time that such disruptions continue,” the filing reads. Those disruptions will also depend on the “currently unknowable duration of the COVID-19 pandemic.” Disney’s SEC filing also notes that “the impact of governmental regulations that might be imposed” is something they’ll have to keep in mind. For example, Florida and California governments could impose bans on large gatherings for an extended period of time, meaning that Disney World and Disneyland may have to operate within those guidelines. While many entertainment companies are taking a hit, Disney is feeling it extra hard. Unlike NBCUniversal and WarnerMedia, owned by major telecom companies Comcast and AT&T respectively, Disney doesn’t have a larger conglomerate it can rest on. Analytical firm MoffettNathanson issued a research note last week explaining just how hard extended park closures, production delays, and other forces could hit Disney in the months to come. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline In an unprecedented move, Disney parks will remain closed until further notice Here’s how hospitals are keeping up emergency services during COVID-19 View all 322 stories More From The Verge Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook