https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21051259/art-club
The sex toy banned from CES last year is unlike any we’ve ever seen - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News Circuit Breaker The sex toy banned from CES last year is unlike anything we’ve ever seen It’s certainly innovative By Ashley Carman@ashleyrcarman Jan 6, 2020, 9:25am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: The sex toy banned from CES last year is unlike anything we’ve ever seen Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Ashley Carman / The Verge Lora DiCarlo likely didn’t intend to change CES forever, but the sexual wellness company and its personal massager accomplished just that last year. After having an award revoked and being banned from the show, Lora DiCarlo successfully lobbied for sexual health devices to be allowed this year (and had its award reinstated in the process). Now, we’re finally getting a first look at its Osé personal massager. It’s genuinely shocking — I’ve never seen a device like it, so I can see why it won an innovation award. The Osé massager attempts to mimic human touch by stimulating the G-spot and clitoris at the same time. The device doesn’t vibrate at all. Instead, the company focused its efforts on creating a product that could replicate a “come hither” motion for G-spot stimulation and a sucking mechanism to engage the clitoris. Image: Ashley Carman / The Verge I’ve admittedly been skeptical of Lora DiCarlo — CES is a prime place for vaporware, and we hadn’t seen a working prototype throughout this entire controversy — but the company seemingly created what it set out to make. The shaft of the device has a ball inside that protrudes and moves up and down for that “come hither” motion, the speed of which can be adjusted, as well as the length of the strokes, using buttons on the bottom of the device. The shaft also bends to fit each person’s pelvic angle. Meanwhile, the clitoral stimulator, which uses a motor to flutter air in and out, can also be adjusted for intensity. If you put your thumb over it, like I did on the show floor, it’ll form a seal that makes it feel like the device has latched onto you. Lora DiCarlo initially won its innovation award in 2019 within the drones and robotics category. Then, just as the convention was starting, the company publicized that the Consumer Technology Association, which puts on the convention, took the award back after allegedly citing a rule that said products that are “immoral, obscene, indecent, profane or not in keeping with CTA’s image will be disqualified.” The CTA later backtracked on that excuse and said the product simply didn’t fit in the robotics and drones category. Image: Ashley Carman / The Verge Either way, Lora DiCarlo lost the award and went on a media spree to expose the tech industry’s lack of understanding and interest in sexual health technology. This led a vocal group of people online to speak out against the CTA, which prompted the industry group to not only reinstate Lora DiCarlo’s award, but also commit to allowing sex tech on the CES show floor. This year, these gadgets are allowed in the health and wellness section, so long as the group considers them to be “innovative and include new or emerging tech.” That’s why this week, Lora DiCarlo and other companies are making public product debuts. Other than showing off the Osé, Lora DiCarlo announced two more products this week: the Onda and Baci. They’re essentially the Osé broken up into two pieces instead of one. The Onda stimulates the G-spot, and the Baci stimulates the clitoris. Lora DiCarlo is the first sex tech company we’ve seen at CES this year, but there will be more. Lora DiCarlo says it sold around 10,000 Osé units during its presale, which are supposed to ship this month. While I’m certainly interested in the reviews, the device’s legacy is already set. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns The sex toy banned from CES last year is unlike anything we’ve ever seen Roku launches program to let third-party soundbars integrate with Roku TV View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook