https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/14/21138480/art-club
Facebook cancels global marketing conference due to the coronavirus outbreak - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Business US & World Tech Facebook cancels global marketing conference due to the coronavirus outbreak There were 4,000 people expected to attend By Jay Peters@jaypeters Feb 14, 2020, 7:04pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Facebook cancels global marketing conference due to the coronavirus outbreak Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Facebook has canceled its upcoming global marketing conference out of caution for the coronavirus outbreak, according to Reuters. The conference was set to take place in March at San Francisco’s Moscone Center, and 4,000 people were expected to attend. “Our priority is the health and safety of our teams, so out of an abundance of caution, we cancelled our Global Marketing Summit due to evolving public health risks related to coronavirus,” said a Facebook spokesperson in a statement to The Verge. Facebook canceling its global marketing conference comes on the heels of this week’s cancellation of Mobile World Congress, also due to coronavirus concerns. In the days leading up to MWC’s cancelation, several vendors, including LG, Ericsson, Nvidia, Intel, Vivo, Sony, Amazon, NTT Docomo, Cisco, Nokia, BT, and HMD, all pulled out from the show over fears of endangering attendees. Coronavirus has infected more than 49,000 people to date, and 1,383 people have died so far from the disease. It has had wide-ranging effects on the tech industry, including store closures, production shortages, and manufacturing delays. Right now, the virus does not seem to be spreading widely in other countries besides China, and the World Health Organization has not made a recommendation to cancel meetings outside of China. You can read all of The Verge’s coverage of coronavirus right here. Related The world’s biggest phone show has been canceled due to coronavirus concerns Coronavirus cancellations show evidence-based decisions are rare during epidemics All the ways China’s coronavirus outbreak is affecting tech Update February 14th, 8:59PM ET: Added statement provided by Facebook. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Facebook cancels global marketing conference due to the coronavirus outbreak Coronavirus cancellations show evidence-based decisions are rare during epidemics View all 322 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook