https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21054050/amd-64-core-processor-threadripper-3990x-release-date-pricing-ces-2020
AMD’s new 64-core Threadripper CPU will cost nearly $4,000 for the performance - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News AMD’s 64-core Threadripper CPU will cost nearly $4,000 for its high-end performance New, 6 comments These new high-end chips will arrive in February By Tom Warren@tomwarren Jan 6, 2020, 6:23pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: AMD’s 64-core Threadripper CPU will cost nearly $4,000 for its high-end performance Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email AMD’s Threadripper 3990X AMD is ready to release its first Threadripper 3990X CPU with 64 computing cores. The first chips will be available on February 7th, priced at $3,990. This isn’t your typical Threadripper, and it’s really designed for high-end desktop computing and creative tasks. AMD is including 64 cores, 128 threads, a 2.9GHz base clock with boosts up to 4.3GHz, and 288MB total cache. The cores and threads alone are double the previous flagship 2990WX, and the Threadripper 3990X is priced accordingly. AMD has partnered up with RED, makers of high-end cameras, to test the Threadripper 3990X. The chipmaker has also previously revealed it’s targeting this processor at “Hollywood creators,” so it’s likely that visual effects professionals will be using rigs with these new chips inside in the future. Despite the Hollywood focus, AMD has also been boosting the core counts in all of its desktop CPUs. You can pick up a 16-core Ryzen 9 chip for mainstream desktop PCs right now. AMD’s latest 64-core Threadripper won’t be making its way into mainstream desktop PCs or even gaming rigs anytime soon, but it does open the door for the company to eventually drive the costs down of manufacturing these chips so we might see something similar hit the mainstream in the future. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns AMD’s 64-core Threadripper CPU will cost nearly $4,000 for its high-end performance LG’s roll-up TV is shipping this year and could cost $60,000 View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook