https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/27/21083737/plague-inc-developer-coronavirus-outbreak-game-popularity-china
Plague Inc. developer reminds players it is just a game amid coronavirus outbreak - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Science Entertainment Plague Inc. developer reminds players it is just a game amid coronavirus outbreak The game saw a surge of popularity after the coronavirus outbreak in China was made public By Mary Beth Griggs Jan 27, 2020, 2:35pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Plague Inc. developer reminds players it is just a game amid coronavirus outbreak Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Chinese tourists wearing masks use smartphones in the Ginza shopping district on January 24, 2020 in Tokyo, Japan. Photo by Tomohiro Ohsumi/Getty Images As the coronavirus outbreak continues to spread, the creators of a wildly popular game about viral outbreaks issued a statement last week reminding people that, while realistic, their game is just a game. “Please remember that Plague Inc. is a game, not a scientific model and that the current coronavirus outbreak is a very real situation which is impacting a huge number of people,” reads a statement on the company’s website. “Please remember that ‘Plague Inc.’ is a game, not a scientific model” The game, in which players must try to infect the entire world with a deadly virus, experienced a surge in popularity last week as people learned more about the severity of the new coronavirus outbreak in China. The real-world virus outbreak also brought out the black humor in gamers. 2012's Plague Inc. -- where players evolve a pathogen to wipe out humanity -- is now China's top paid iOS game. https://t.co/JdYrVJzwZX pic.twitter.com/inJ5jGvEJ2 — Zheping Huang (@pingroma) January 22, 2020 The popularity is not that big of a surprise for James Vaughan, founder of Ndemic Creations, and creator of the game. Ndemic Creations has seen similar patterns before. “[W]henever there is an outbreak of disease we see an increase in players, as people seek to find out more about how diseases spread and to understand the complexities of viral outbreaks,” the statement says. Plague Inc. is currently available as both a video game and as a board game. Vaughan created the first version of the game eight years ago in his spare time, and tried to make the game as realistic as possible. In 2013, he was invited to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to give a talk about how games like Plague Inc. can help engage the public. Ndemic Creations urges players concerned about the coronavirus to check the World Health Organization’s website for the latest information. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Plague Inc. developer reminds players it is just a game amid coronavirus outbreak If you’re feeling nervous about the coronavirus, you’re not alone View all 322 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook