https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21051308/samsung-tv-design-8k-q950-qled-sero-rotating-ces-2020
Samsung’s ideas for the future of TVs are stunning and weird - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Featured Videos Tech CES 2020 News Samsung’s ideas for the future of TVs are stunning and weird New, 13 comments The bezel-less 8K TV looks incredible, and the Sero brings vertical video to your living room By Chris Welch@chriswelch Jan 6, 2020, 9:43am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Samsung’s ideas for the future of TVs are stunning and weird Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Samsung has come to CES 2020 with some high-design TVs that range from the flagship 8K QLED Q950 (with bezels that are basically nonexistent when the screen is on) to the Sero, a “lifestyle” 4K TV designed for millennials, Gen Z-ers, and really anyone who lives on their phone. Link it to your mobile device, and the Sero can rotate its 43-inch screen vertically to show portrait videos (or mobile apps and games) without any pillarboxing. If you’re a vertical video hater, the Sero might seem almost sacrilegious. A TV designed to showcase video that people are capturing the wrong way? But portrait clips are here to stay — be it Instagram stories, TikTok posts, Snapchat, or other content — and this is the first time where it’s made any real sense to bother watching these videos on the TV screen. Pricing, which hasn’t been revealed yet, will make or break the Sero. Too high and it’s a costly gimmick. But if it’s not outrageous, the Sero will have an easier time finding its way into some living rooms and bedrooms. And then there’s Samsung’s nicest-looking TV, the new 8K flagship called the Q950. When it ships later this year, the TV with razor-thin bezels will come in 65-, 75-, and 85-inch sizes. It’s just 15 millimeters thick and somehow packs six speakers into that all-screen design. Gorgeous as it is, the bezel-less 8K QLED solves none of 8K’s problems. There’s still no real content of which to speak. The best Samsung can do is lean on AI-powered upscaling and make vague promises about streaming 8K in the not-too-distant future. If the Infinity Display design could be had in a 4K model, I’d be all-in. This design is what the future of Samsung’s TVs should be. It’s far more stunning in person than in press renders. Photo by Chris Welch / The Verge Photo by Chris Welch / The Verge For most consumers, Samsung’s most important 2020 TVs will be its mainstream 4K QLED lineup — and the company didn’t have much to say on that front at CES. Like other TV makers, Samsung is prepping for the coming new generation of game consoles and will probably have much more to share on its 4K sets over the next few months. But Samsung used its annual appearance in Las Vegas to show where it thinks TVs are headed. At the luxury end, you’ve got a phenomenally immersive 8K TV, and at the other is a unique set that might just cause some people to share their Instagram Story with friends from the couch instead of passing a phone around. The Verge on YouTube Exclusive first looks at new tech, reviews, and shows like Processor with Dieter Bohn. Subscribe! In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Samsung’s ideas for the future of TVs are stunning and weird The sex toy banned from CES last year is unlike anything we’ve ever seen View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook