https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/24/21080628/art-club
If you’re feeling nervous about the coronavirus, you’re not alone   - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Health If you’re feeling nervous about the coronavirus, you’re not alone Take a break from reading the internet By Nicole Wetsman Jan 24, 2020, 4:50pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: If you’re feeling nervous about the coronavirus, you’re not alone Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Maverick Asio/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images Part of A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic Your risk of catching the new coronavirus is probably low if you haven’t recently been to Wuhan, China (where the virus originated) or been in contact with people who were there recently. But you might still be anxious about the spread of the virus. That’s perfectly normal, says Jane Timmons-Mitchell, associate professor in the department of psychiatry at the Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine — and there are some easy ways to cope with those anxious feelings. “There’s a lot of good stuff we can do to help ourselves,” Timmons-Mitchell says. “It’s not big deal stuff, it’s stuff you can do on your own in your home.” This interview has been lightly edited for clarity. I’m in New York, and while there have been a few suspected cases in the state, I know the risk of me getting this disease is really low. Why am I still feeling anxious about this virus? It’s normal to feel anxious when something is well publicized and is something new and potentially dangerous. Something big is going on, but I think the reaction is largely to all the coverage. We focus on what’s new, as opposed to what’s a part of how things usually are. Thousands and thousands of people die from the flu every year, but we’re thinking about the new thing. It’s sometimes harder for me control my anxiety when it’s about illnesses than it is when I’m worried about other things. Why is that? There are many ways anxiety can manifest. But if we’re thinking about a physical illness, if you know what the symptoms are, you could focus on or be hyperaware of anything in your body that could be those symptoms — if you have a bit of a tickle, or feel like you maybe have a low-grade fever. Those are all things that could happen as manifestations of feeling anxious and looking for it. The body is strange in that way. Anxiety can cause stress, which can cause physical reactions. What can I do to feel less anxious? One of the things is to try and keep it in perspective. In that sense, you could think about all the things you do every day that incur some risk. You live in a place that could be dangerous in a number of ways — like it could catch on fire. You go outside of that place, and you could be struck by lighting. But we don’t think about those things. We have decided those are acceptable risks and they occur at such a low rate that the benefit is worth it. You can apply the usual coping strategy, which is to weigh the acceptable risk. try and keep it in perspective Instead of reading every article and going to every website, staying away from the web is probably a good idea if you’re concerned. You can get a lot of bad information and anecdotal reports that have nothing to do with what’s likely happening to you or anyone else. Pursue constructive activities instead of hyper-focusing on the thing that you’re worried about. Other things that can help are following the usual structure of your day. Include exercise as much as you can. When you’re exercising, you have a physiological response that combats anxiety. Social connection also helps. Do things with people you know that are not centered around specific symptoms — doing something you usually do, that you enjoy, is a really good way to not focus on what you’re anxious about. Avoiding the news is something that’s pretty hard for me as a health journalist, but are there ways for other people to stay informed without getting overwhelmed and making their anxiety worse? Pick sources of news that you trust and are well-vetted. Something everyone can do is go to the CDC website, and if there’s something you need to be aware of, they will have a banner to let you know. If you’re extremely anxious but still want to check in, you could try checking that website only once a day. Distance yourself if you can. A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic Virus Basics 5 Everything you need to know about the coronavirus The coronavirus could stick around, but the way we fight it will change if it does Here’s who’s most at risk from the novel coronavirus Canceling events early can help keep an outbreak from getting worse Why we’re seeing some severe COVID-19 cases among younger people Virus Response 11 Coronavirus testing shouldn’t be this complicated How cities are fighting coronavirus on public transportation How emergency declarations are helping governments respond to COVID-19 The new coronavirus is not an excuse to be racist WHO declares the outbreak of the new coronavirus is a pandemic Trump signs $8.3 billion emergency coronavirus aid package Coronavirus-contaminated cruise ships mirror the global crisis All of Italy is being placed on lockdown due to coronavirus Prisons and jails are vulnerable to COVID-19 outbreaks Personal privacy matters during a pandemic — but less than it might at other times Scientists are racing to find the best drugs to treat COVID-19 How Tos 4 Everything you wanted to know about self-quarantine, from a person who’s living it A germophobe’s guide to a clean phone How to make your own hand sanitizer How to debunk COVID-19 conspiracy theories Virus Science 10 It’s going to take a lot longer to make a COVID-19 vaccine than a treatment The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is exploring at-home COVID-19 tests in Seattle How the coronavirus hitches a ride around your life The US has tested shockingly few people for the new coronavirus Continued travel bans aren’t going to stop spread of the new coronavirus Health care workers are at high risk of catching COVID-19 Stanford group wants to use your computer to help researchers study the coronavirus An experimental treatment for the new coronavirus is being tested in the US Coronavirus data from outside the outbreak epicenter is just as valuable as from the inside To fight the coronavirus, labs are printing its genome What the tech sector is doing 10 Electronics companies are getting gridlocked by coronavirus lockdowns Tech giants will keep paying hourly staff even if they are asked to stay home due to coronavirus Amazon, Google, Facebook, and Microsoft are asking Seattle-based staff to work from home because of coronavirus Postmates says it will start ‘non-contact’ meal deliveries during the coronavirus outbreak Amazon Flex drivers won’t be paid if they have to stay home due to coronavirus, but Uber’s and Lyft’s will Facebook temporarily bans ads for medical face masks to prevent coronavirus exploitation Google and Microsoft are giving away enterprise conferencing tools due to coronavirus Etsy has started cracking down on coronavirus merchandise Amazon has barred a million products for making false coronavirus claims Facebook confirms ban on misleading coronavirus ads Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook