https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/7/21127891/ericsson-mobile-world-congress-coronavirus-mwc-conference
Ericsson pulls out of Mobile World Congress over coronavirus concerns - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech MWC 2020 Ericsson pulls out of Mobile World Congress over coronavirus concerns New, 3 comments The conference is still on By Ashley Carman@ashleyrcarman Feb 7, 2020, 10:39am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Ericsson pulls out of Mobile World Congress over coronavirus concerns Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Ericsson, a Swedish telecom company, announced today that it will no longer attend Mobile World Congress, a major mobile electronics conference, over coronavirus concerns. This makes the company the third exhibitor to drop out of the show, following LG and ZTE. The company says it’ll instead focus its efforts on local demos of new technology because it doesn’t want to put its employees in danger of catching the virus. “Ericsson appreciates that GSMA have done everything they can to control the risk,” a press release states. “However, as one of the largest exhibitors, Ericsson has thousands of visitors in its hall each day and even if the risk is low, the company cannot guarantee the health and safety of its employees and visitors.” GSM Association, the organization that puts on the show, said in a statement that it “respects” Ericsson’s decision and is encouraged that the company committed to the 2021 show. It also reemphasized that the show will go on at the end of the month, from February 24th to the 27th. It’s continuing to “monitor and assess” the virus situation to make appropriate changes. The group previously said it would increase medical support and disinfection measures on site and communicate best practices to attendees. Speakers will be subject to a new microphone changing protocol, and a “no-handshake policy” is also being advised. The show will still go on Meanwhile, Xiaomi, Vivo, and Honor all previously told The Verge that they plan to attend, as does Qualcomm, Lenovo, and Motorola. The Ericsson decision comes at a time when more people are looking to the company for business. US Attorney General William Barr suggested this week that the US government might purchase a stake in Ericsson or Finland-based Nokia in an effort to thwart China-based company Huawei’s telecom ambitions. The US intelligence industry considers Huawei a national security threat because of its alleged ties to the Chinese government, the existence of which Huawei denies. Barr and the government believe investing in either of the European telecoms would give the US a leg up on 5G technology and ensure that Huawei doesn’t dominate the industry. For its part, GSMA represents more than 1,200 companies across the mobile ecosystem, and MWC is always a chance for thousands to gather for partnerships, deals, and product launches in front of the global press. With more people taking an interest in Ericsson, it likely would have even more attention at the show this year, which it’s giving up in favor of protecting its employees. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Ericsson pulls out of Mobile World Congress over coronavirus concerns Handshake bans to stop the coronavirus might be overkill in most places View all 322 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook