https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21050631/bluetooth-hearing-aids-sharing-audio-le-lc3-codec-ces-2020
Bluetooth will support hearing aids, sharing, and a better audio codec - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech CES 2020 News Bluetooth will support hearing aids, sharing, and a better audio codec New, 6 comments Bluetooth may really get better next year By Dieter Bohn@backlon Jan 6, 2020, 9:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Bluetooth will support hearing aids, sharing, and a better audio codec Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Now that most smartphones don’t have headphone jacks, there’s no shortage of complaints about Bluetooth. This year at CES, the industry group in charge of defining the standard, the Bluetooth SIG, is introducing new features that should address some of them. Later this year, it will finalize new support for Bluetooth LE Audio, which is an umbrella term for a bunch of new features for Bluetooth devices. The new features include higher-quality audio, hearing aid support, broadcasting to many people, and working better with wireless earbuds. Unfortunately, as is the way with all industry specs, it will take some time for these features to make their way into consumer products. The old joke that “Bluetooth will be better next year” still holds true. The feature that will likely affect the most people is the new “Low Complexity Communication Codec,” or LC3. LC3 simultaneously reduces power consumption while increasing audio quality. Right now, the lowest common denominator for Bluetooth audio is the relatively old and relatively bad SBC codec, though many phones support Qualcomm’s proprietary codec, AptX. In order to get SBC to sound good, you have to increase the bitrate, which increases power consumption. The Bluetooth SIG claims that, in its testing, users preferred the new LC3 codec, even at significantly lower bitrates. The group is also finally beefing up official support for Bluetooth hearing aids. It has worked in conjunction with a European hearing instrument association to ensure broad support in the coming years, including working with TVs and other devices. Hearing aid support is also possible because Bluetooth LE Audio includes a suite of other features that haven’t been possible before. For example, a new “broadcast” feature will theoretically allow an entire movie theater audience to use their Bluetooth headphones to tune in to the movie. I asked how, exactly, pairing would work in cases like these, and the answer seems to be “TBD.” Other updates are more practical. Bluetooth LE will natively support multistream audio. That means wireless earbuds will be able to receive their own independent signal from a phone instead of having to communicate with each other. Multistream also will allow for easier sharing of Bluetooth audio among multiple users from the same source. If that last feature sounds familiar, that’s because Apple already supports multistream with its own proprietary software and wireless headphones. So in a sense, these new updates from the Bluetooth SIG are an attempt to take specific features enjoyed by some (Qualcomm’s audio quality, Apple’s sharing) and make them part of the spec. That’s all great, but unfortunately, there’s one experience that iPhones (and, to a lesser extent, some Android phones) have that isn’t getting built in: easier pairing. One more “unfortunately”: I have to (again) remind you that this is an industry standards group. Bluetooth does a much better job of maintaining consistency across different manufacturers than other tech industry groups, but that doesn’t mean it can move as fast as you’d like. The group says that “Bluetooth specifications that define LE Audio are expected to be released throughout the first half of 2020,” which means that devices that take advantage of it will at best be available for holiday 2020, but 2021 is a much more likely time frame. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Bluetooth will support hearing aids, sharing, and a better audio codec Canon announces the EOS-1D X Mark III because the DSLR still isn’t dead View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook