https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/5/21123887/art-club
Motorola’s foldable Razr looks even better in gold - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech Motorola’s foldable Razr looks even better in gold New, 13 comments A new color leaks By Jon Porter@JonPorty Feb 5, 2020, 6:22am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Motorola’s foldable Razr looks even better in gold Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Images of an unannounced gold color have leaked online. Image: Evan Blass A gold version of Motorola’s upcoming foldable Razr has been leaked by Evan Blass, and the color scheme could be our favorite version yet. The highly anticipated return of the Razr is currently only available in black on Verizon’s site for $1,499 and a March 3rd delivery. There’s no word on when the gold version might be available, or whether it will carry a price premium. Blass doesn’t share any details about the specs of the leaked handset, so we’re assuming that the gold model will feature the same specs as the standard “Noir Black” Razr. These specs include a mid-range Snapdragon 710 processor, and a 6.2-inch foldable plastic OLED panel, which Motorola worryingly warns may be prone to developing “bumps and lumps.” Beyond the new color, the rest of the handset appears unchanged. Image: Evan Blass Meanwhile, multiple rumors suggest that Samsung is preparing to launch a phone with a very similar form-factor next week called the Galaxy Z Flip alongside its Galaxy S20 lineup. The upcoming foldable is thought to include an “Ultra Thin Glass” display, which could be more durable than the plastic displays used on the Razr, and Samsung first-generation Fold. Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook