https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/13/21136648/apple-beijing-stores-reopen-february-14th-limited-hours-coronavirus
Apple will reopen its five Beijing stores on February 14th, with limited hours - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Apple Tech Apple will reopen its five Beijing stores on February 14th, with limited hours New, 8 comments The stores were originally closed due to coronavirus concerns By Chaim Gartenberg@cgartenberg Feb 13, 2020, 3:04pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Apple will reopen its five Beijing stores on February 14th, with limited hours Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo: Apple Apple is reportedly planning to reopen its five Beijing stores on February 14th, albeit with limited hours, via Reuters. The stores will be the first to reopen in China since Apple closed all of its retail stores on February 1st due to concerns about the coronavirus. The company’s five Beijing stores — Sanlitun, Apple Mall China, Chaoyang Joy City, Wangfujing, and Xidan Joy City — are set to reopen on the 14th from 11AM to 6PM, instead of the usual 10AM to 10PM timing. (Those limited hours will be in place until at least February 20th, according to Apple’s website). Related Everything you need to know about the coronavirus from China So far, those five Beijing stores are the only ones to reopen. Apple has yet to say when the company’s remaining Chinese stores will reopen. The coronavirus — formally named COVID-19 — has seen 60,000 confirmed cases and 1,370 deaths to date. In the weeks since the virus has emerged, the World Health Organization has declared a global public health emergency, with the US State Department issuing a travel advisory as airlines have independently limited flights to China. Concerns over the virus have also seen major events like MWC 2020 canceled over the past few days. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Apple will reopen its five Beijing stores on February 14th, with limited hours The world’s biggest phone show has been canceled due to coronavirus concerns View all 322 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook