https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21051928/lg-apple-tv-plus-support-2018-2019-2020-oled-nanocell-televisions
LG is bringing Apple TV to its 2018, 2019 and 2020 smart TVs - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Apple Tech CES 2020 News LG’s smart TVs are the latest to add Apple TV, and you won’t have to buy a 2020 model to get it LG is including the Apple TV app — not just on 2020 models but on 2018 and 2019 sets, too By Kim Lyons Jan 6, 2020, 3:12pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: LG’s smart TVs are the latest to add Apple TV, and you won’t have to buy a 2020 model to get it Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: LG Even if it’s not a brand-new model, if you have an LG smart TV, you’ll soon have access to Apple’s original TV content. LG announced in a release that its OLED and NanoCell televisions will now support the Apple TV app — and not just the new 2020 models but its 2019 and 2018 versions as well. That means LG TV users won’t need a separate set-top box to get Apple TV Plus, iTunes, or other original Apple programming. LG’s release said only that those with 2018 and 2019 LG TV models would be able to “enjoy the Apple TV app this year.” The Verge has reached out to LG to find out when the older TVs will have access to the Apple TV app, and we will update when we hear back. It’s smart for LG to make the Apple TV app available for its slightly older models. As 9to5Mac points out, LG originally restricted support for AirPlay 2 and HomeKit to 2019 and newer models of its TVs, leading annoyed users of older models to petition LG last January to provide the necessary firmware updates for their TVs. The petitioners pointed out that rival companies Samsung and Vizio offered support for AirPlay 2 and HomeKit for their older models via firmware updates, perhaps exerting some pressure on LG to make Apple TV available to its recent older models. The Apple TV app was available on launch day for Roku, Amazon Fire TV, and recent Samsung TVs. The app is preinstalled in newer iPhones, iPads, and on devices running macOS Catalina or later. Once activated, Apple TV Plus is free for 12 months on those devices. For everyone else, the service is $4.99 per month after a seven-day free trial. Apple’s original programming, which includes the star-studded The Morning Show, has so far been met with mixed reviews. Apple was completely shut out at Sunday’s Golden Globe Awards, despite Best Actress nominations for stars Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon. LG announced eight 8K TVs ahead of this week’s CES, and all have Alexa, Google Assistant, HomeKit, and AirPlay 2 included. The TVs range in size from 65 inches for its LCDs up to 88 inches for its new OLED model. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns LG’s smart TVs are the latest to add Apple TV, and you won’t have to buy a 2020 model to get it TCL is finally getting into the phone game with its own name View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook