https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/28/21112051/samsung-galaxy-z-flip-leaked-foldable-display-glass-oled-specs-images-photos-unpacked
Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip fully revealed in leaked images - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech Samsung Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip fully revealed in leaked images New, 23 comments No 5G, two displays, and a horizontally folding glass display By Chaim Gartenberg@cgartenberg Jan 28, 2020, 12:03pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip fully revealed in leaked images Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: WinFuture Rumors about Samsung’s next foldable, the vertically folding Galaxy Z Flip, have been swirling for weeks. But thanks to a new leak, the full details for the upcoming foldable phone have been revealed. WinFuture’s leak is the biggest yet for the upcoming device, with official renders from Samsung and a full spec sheet for the Galaxy Z Flip. As expected, the Z Flip will feature a 6.7-inch, 22:9 aspect ratio foldable OLED display with an FHD+ (2636 x 1080) resolution. Unlike the Galaxy Fold, the new leak confirms that the Z Flip will feature an “Ultra Thin Glass” display, instead of the more fragile plastic panel that caused issues on the Fold. Like Samsung’s other recent phones, the Z Flip will feature a centrally located hole-punch camera on the inside for selfies. There’s also a second display on the outside: a 1.06-inch (300 x 116) OLED panel that can be used to tell the time and for displaying simple notifications. Image: WinFuture As for the internal specifications, the Galaxy Z Flip features solid — if slightly outdated — specs: a Qualcomm Snapdragon 855 Plus (notably not the latest Snapdragon 865 flagship that’s expected to come with the Galaxy S20 lineup), 8GB of RAM, and 256GB of internal storage. In terms of ports, there’s just a single USB-C port for charging and audio. There’s no expandable microSD card slot and no 3.5mm headphone jack. Also missing is support for 5G; the Galaxy Z Flip will only support LTE networks. The Galaxy Z Flip will feature three cameras: a dual camera setup on the outside of the phone consisting of a 12-megapixel main lens and a 12-megapixel ultra wide angle lens, and a single 10-megapixel camera on the inside. The fact that the Galaxy Z Flip doesn’t wow on specs isn’t necessarily a problem for Samsung: WinFuture notes that the plan is to sell the Z Flip on its futuristic style and unique design (a similar strategy as Motorola’s upcoming foldable Razr.) Customers looking for a maxed-out hardware monster will likely do better off with the S20 lineup (particularly, the S20 Ultra) — the Z Flip is meant for influencers and customers who prioritize design over sheer specs. Pricing and release dates haven’t been confirmed yet, but an earlier leak from XDA’s Max Weinbach suggests that the Galaxy Z Flip will cost $1,400 and release on February 14th. In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip fully revealed in leaked images Everything we think we know about the Samsung Galaxy S20 View all 54 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook