https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/7/21167807/coronavirus-prison-jail-health-outbreak-covid-19-flu-soap
Prisons and jails are vulnerable to COVID-19 outbreaks - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Health Coronavirus Prisons and jails are vulnerable to COVID-19 outbreaks Prison health is community health By Nicole Wetsman Mar 7, 2020, 8:30am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Prisons and jails are vulnerable to COVID-19 outbreaks Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Mauro Ujetto/NurPhoto via Getty Images Part of A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic This week, a person incarcerated in King County Jail in downtown Seattle was taken to the hospital after they were suspected of having the new coronavirus. The county says there are no cases currently in the jail, but the new virus remains a huge concern for correctional facilities, particularly in outbreak hotspots like King County. With 85 confirmed cases of COVID-19, the illness caused by the virus, the county is home to the largest known hotspot of cases of the new coronavirus in the United States. It’s only a matter of time before the novel coronavirus enters a US jail or prisons, says Tyler Winkelman, co-director of the Health, Homelessness, and Criminal Justice Lab at the Hennepin Healthcare Research Institute in Minneapolis. “All prisons and jails should anticipate that the coronavirus will enter their facility, and they need to have plans for monitoring and treating anyone who has symptoms,” he says. People regularly cycle in and out of jails and prisons, people who work in them leave and return daily, and visitors regularly stream through. Viruses of all kinds have multiple entry points, and those that enter tend to spread fast. Outbreaks of the flu regularly occur in these facilities, and during the H1N1 epidemic in 2009, many jails and prisons dealt with high numbers of cases. “We know the coronavirus spreads quickly in closed spaces, like cruise ships, nursing homes — and jails and prisons,” Winkelman says. Many people who are incarcerated also have chronic conditions, like diabetes or HIV, which makes them vulnerable to severe forms of COVID-19. One way to reduce the impact of the virus on jails and prisons, Winkelman says, is to avoid holding people for low-level offenses. In Iran, officials temporarily released tens of thousands of people determined to not be a risk to the public from prisons in an effort to stop the spread of the virus. People who aren’t a risk to public safety shouldn’t be held in a jail just because they’re not able to pay a bond, he says. “We are increasing their health risk by keeping them,” he says. “This is a time to make sure we have as few people at risk as possible.” In Sonoma County, California, the jail is screening people at booking for symptoms and asking them about their travel history and contact with people who may be sick. Those types of screenings are critical, Winkelman says. “It is essential that correctional staff are working with officials to make sure no one ill is entering a facility.” Some jails and prisons in the US may be prepared to screen, monitor, and treat people suspected of having COVID-19. But others are far from equipped to handle it. Health care centers in correctional facilities are often substandard and understaffed, which may mean people held in them aren’t monitored regularly enough. “Symptoms need to be addressed quickly, not once a week or twice a week,” Winkelman says. Isolating people suspected of having the virus could also be a challenge in some facilities — the Hennepin County jail has four isolation rooms and set up some spaces for quarantines, but other places might not have the same capabilities, he says. Homer Venters, former chief medical officer of the New York City jail system, wrote in The Hill that jails and prisons need to prepare now. “[They] need to have a plan in place to identify and house together people with suspected and diagnosed COVID-19 and those who are at high risk of serious illness if they become infected,” he wrote. Many facilities struggled to do so during the outbreaks of H1N1, he said, because jails typically house people based on the level of security they need — not their health status. Standard public health interventions, like flu shots, are even more important during disease outbreaks — if fewer people get the flu, they can stay out of health care facilities and leave more resources available for those who really need it. “We don’t want there to be outbreaks of multiple illnesses at once,” Winkelman says. Many jails and prisons, though, don’t regularly provide flu shots. Over half of US jails did not receive H1N1 vaccines when they became available. Under 10 percent of people in Maine correctional facilities received flu shots in 2011, which contributed to outbreaks. People in jails and prisons also may not be able to regularly wash their hands, which may promote the spread of disease. Hand sanitizer, which contains alcohol, is usually considered contraband. COVID-19 outbreaks in and around jails and prisons don’t just have health impacts for people within the justice system. If public health officials recommend that courts not meet during outbreaks, people might be held for longer than necessary. It might be challenging for people on probation to meet with supervisors or fulfill community supervision requirements if there are restrictions on movement in an area. “It may also mean that there would be less programing and movement within a facility. Likely, at some point, visiting would be shut down,” Winkelman says. “That can increase isolation and anxiety during a period of incarceration.” Vulnerable communities like people held in prisons and jails are often most at risk during public health emergencies — they have fewer protections from an outbreak, and may face more significant fallout from any disruptions in daily life. But protecting communities from infectious diseases means protecting everyone, including those who aren’t as able to protect themselves. “Jail and prison health care is public health. It’s community health,” Winkelman says. A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic Virus Basics 6 Everything you need to know about the coronavirus The coronavirus could stick around, but the way we fight it will change if it does If you’re feeling nervous about the coronavirus, you’re not alone Here’s who’s most at risk from the novel coronavirus Canceling events early can help keep an outbreak from getting worse Why we’re seeing some severe COVID-19 cases among younger people Virus Response 10 Coronavirus testing shouldn’t be this complicated How cities are fighting coronavirus on public transportation How emergency declarations are helping governments respond to COVID-19 The new coronavirus is not an excuse to be racist WHO declares the outbreak of the new coronavirus is a pandemic Trump signs $8.3 billion emergency coronavirus aid package Coronavirus-contaminated cruise ships mirror the global crisis All of Italy is being placed on lockdown due to coronavirus Personal privacy matters during a pandemic — but less than it might at other times Scientists are racing to find the best drugs to treat COVID-19 How Tos 4 Everything you wanted to know about self-quarantine, from a person who’s living it A germophobe’s guide to a clean phone How to make your own hand sanitizer How to debunk COVID-19 conspiracy theories Virus Science 10 It’s going to take a lot longer to make a COVID-19 vaccine than a treatment The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is exploring at-home COVID-19 tests in Seattle How the coronavirus hitches a ride around your life The US has tested shockingly few people for the new coronavirus Continued travel bans aren’t going to stop spread of the new coronavirus Health care workers are at high risk of catching COVID-19 Stanford group wants to use your computer to help researchers study the coronavirus An experimental treatment for the new coronavirus is being tested in the US Coronavirus data from outside the outbreak epicenter is just as valuable as from the inside To fight the coronavirus, labs are printing its genome What the tech sector is doing 10 Electronics companies are getting gridlocked by coronavirus lockdowns Tech giants will keep paying hourly staff even if they are asked to stay home due to coronavirus Amazon, Google, Facebook, and Microsoft are asking Seattle-based staff to work from home because of coronavirus Postmates says it will start ‘non-contact’ meal deliveries during the coronavirus outbreak Amazon Flex drivers won’t be paid if they have to stay home due to coronavirus, but Uber’s and Lyft’s will Facebook temporarily bans ads for medical face masks to prevent coronavirus exploitation Google and Microsoft are giving away enterprise conferencing tools due to coronavirus Etsy has started cracking down on coronavirus merchandise Amazon has barred a million products for making false coronavirus claims Facebook confirms ban on misleading coronavirus ads Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook