https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21050053/art-club
HP’s updated Elite Dragonfly G2 is the first laptop with a built-in Tile tracker - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Microsoft Tech CES 2020 News HP’s updated Elite Dragonfly G2 is the first laptop with a built-in Tile tracker New, 2 comments The new model also has Intel’s 10th Gen chips and optional 5G By Chaim Gartenberg@cgartenberg Jan 5, 2020, 8:00pm EST Photography by Becca Farsace Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: HP’s updated Elite Dragonfly G2 is the first laptop with a built-in Tile tracker Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email HP’s Elite Dragonfly was a surprisingly great laptop for a business-focused device, and at CES 2020, HP is already announcing an upgraded version: the Elite Dragonfly G2. The updated model adds better chips, more storage, and two intriguing new options: a 5G modem and a built-in Tile tracker, which is the first on a laptop. From the outside, the Dragonfly G2 looks virtually identical to its predecessor, which is a good thing, given that the original model looks great. Most of the updates here are largely to put the spec sheet on par with other modern Windows laptops by adding Intel’s 10th Gen Core processors (compared to the 8th Gen chips that the 2019 model shipped with), including a six-core option. There are also new 1TB and 2TB storage options for those who need more space. It’s the two other configuration options that are most interesting, though. First, a Qualcomm X55 LTE + 5G modem will add support for the next-gen wireless standard (compared to the optional LTE support on last year’s model). Details are slim since HP is not providing carrier support or pricing, but offering faster 5G speeds built directly into a laptop is an intriguing combination. The other big addition is an optional integrated Tile tracker. Tile has touted its Bluetooth trackers’ abilities to keep track of laptops for years, but it’s always required the rather inelegant solution of sticking a physical tracker to your laptop’s lid. The Dragonfly G2, however, is the first laptop to offer the tracking technology built directly into the laptop, allowing you to track it like any other Tile device without having to worry about separate hardware. The laptop can be tracked so long as it has battery life left. (Apple uses a similar method to track its MacBook computers for its Find My tracking.) HP also isn’t the first company to partner with Tile to track hardware; Bose, Boosted, and other brands added support for the Bluetooth tracking system last year. Unfortunately, like its predecessor, the Dragonfly G2 is being sold only a business device, meaning that it’ll likely be trickier to get one if you’re an average customer. There’s no price or release date yet for when the Dragonfly G2 will be available to purchase. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns HP’s updated Elite Dragonfly G2 is the first laptop with a built-in Tile tracker Suunto’s first Wear OS smartwatch is taking on Garmin with outdoor offline maps View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook